Contents
Foreword

iii

To the Teacher

v

1. A Letter to God
G.L.FUENTES

1

Dust of Snow
ROBERT FROST

14

Fire and Ice
ROBERT FROST

15

2. Nelson Mandela : Long Walk to Freedom
NELSON ROLIHLAHLA MANDELA
A Tiger in the Zoo
LESLIE NORRIS
3. Two Stories about Flying
I. His First Flight
LIAM O’ FLAHERTY

16
29
32

II. Black Aeroplane
FREDERICK FORSYTH
The Ball Poem
JOHN BERRYMAN
4. From the Diary of Anne Frank
ANNE FRANK
Amanda!
ROBIN KLEIN
5. The Hundred Dresses –I
EL BSOR ESTER

46
48
61
63

6. The Hundred Dresses–II
EL BSOR ESTER
Animals
WALT WHITMAN

73
83

7. Glimpses of India
I. A Baker from Goa
LUCIO RODRIGUES

85

II. Coorg
LOKESH ABROL
III. Tea from Assam
ARUP KUMAR DATTA
The Trees
ADRIENNE RICH

99

8. Mijbil the Otter
GAVIN MAXWELL

102

Fog
CARL SANDBURG

115

9. Madam Rides the Bus
VALLIKKANNAN
The Tale of Custard the Dragon
OGDEN NASH

116
129

10. The Sermon at Benares

133

For Anne Gregory
WILLIAM BUTLER YEATS

140

11. The Proposal
ANTON CHEKOV

142


They say faith can move mountains. 
But what should we put our faith in? 
This is the question this story delicately poses. 
Lencho is a farmer who writes a letter to God when his crops are ruined, asking for a hundred pesos. 
Does Lencho’s letter reach God? Does God send him the money? 
Think what your answers to these questions would be, and guess how the story continues, before you begin to read it. 
One of the cheapest ways to send money to someone is through the post office. 
Have you ever sent or received money in this way? 
Here’s what you have to do. 
(As you read the instructions,discuss with your teacher in class the meanings of these words: counter, counter clerk, appropriate, acknowledgement, counterfoil,record. 
Consult a dictionary if necessary. 
Are there words corresponding to these English words in your languages?) 
THE house — the only one in the entire valley — sat on the crest of a low hill. 
From this height one could see the river and the field of ripe corn dotted with the flowers that always promised a good harvest. 
The only thing the earth needed was a downpour or at least a shower. 
Throughout the morning Lencho — who knew his fields intimately — had done nothing else but see the sky towards the north-east. 
“Now we’re really going to get some water, woman.” 
The woman who was preparing supper, replied, “Yes, God willing”. 
The older boys were working in the field, while the smaller ones were playing near the house until the woman called to them all, “Come for dinner”. 
It was during the meal that, just as Lencho had predicted, big drops of rain began to fall. 
In the north-east huge mountains of clouds could be seen approaching. 
The air was fresh and sweet. 
The man went out for no other reason than to have the pleasure of feeling the rain on his body, and when he returned he exclaimed, ‘These aren’t raindrops falling from the sky, they are new coins.
The big drops are ten cent pieces and the little ones are fives.’ 
With a satisfied expression he regarded the field of ripe corn with its flowers, draped in a curtain of rain. 
But suddenly a strong wind began to blow and along with the rain very large hailstones began to fall. 
These truly did resemble new silver coins. 
The boys, exposing themselves to the rain, ran out to collect the frozen pearls. 
‘It’s really getting bad now,’’ exclaimed the man. 
“I hope it passes quickly.” 
It did not pass quickly. 
For an hour the hail rained on the house, the garden, the hillside, the cornfield, on the whole valley. 
The field was white, as if covered with salt. 
Not a leaf remained on the trees. 
The corn was totally destroyed. 
The flowers were gone from the plants. 
Lencho’s soul was filled with sadness. 
When the storm had passed, he stood in the middle of the field and said to his sons, “A plague of locusts would have left more than this. 
The hail has left nothing. 
This year we will have no corn.’ 
That night was a sorrowful one. 
“All our work, for nothing.” 
‘‘There’s no one who can help us.” 
“We’ll all go hungry this year.” 
But in the hearts of all who lived in that solitary house in the middle of the valley, there was a single hope: help from God. 
“Don’t be so upset, even though this seems like a total loss. 
Remember, no one dies of hunger.” 
“That’s what they say: no one dies of hunger.” 
All through the night, Lencho thought only of his one hope: the help of God, whose eyes, as he had been instructed, see everything, even what is deep in one’s conscience. 
Lencho was an ox of a man, working like an animal in the fields, but still he knew how to write. 
The following Sunday, at daybreak, he began to write a letter which he himself would carry to town and place in the mail. 
It was nothing less than a letter to God. 
“God,” he wrote, “if you don’t help me, my family and I will go hungry this year. 
I need a hundred pesos in order to sow my field again and to live until the crop comes, because the hailstorm....” 
He wrote ‘To God’ on the envelope, put the letter inside and, still troubled, went to town. 
At the post office, he placed a stamp on the letter and dropped it into the mailbox. 
One of the employees, who was a postman and also helped at the post office, went to his boss laughing heartily and showed him the letter to God.
Never in his career as a postman had he known that address. 
The postmaster — a fat, amiable fellow — also broke out laughing, but almost immediately he turned serious and, tapping the letter on his desk, commented, “What faith! I wish I had the faith of the man who wrote this letter. 
Starting up a correspondence with God!” 
So, in order not to shake the writer’s faith in God, the postmaster came up with an idea: answer the letter. 
But when he opened it, it was evident that to answer it he needed something more than goodwill, ink and paper. 
But he stuck to his resolution: he asked for money from his employees, he himself gave part of his salary, and several friends of his were obliged to give something ‘for an act of charity’. 
It was impossible for him to gather together the hundred pesos, so he was able to send the farmer only a little more than half. 
He put the money in an envelope addressed to Lencho and with it a letter containing only a single word as a signature: God. 
The following Sunday Lencho came a bit earlier than usual to ask if there was a letter for him. 
It was the postman himself who handed the letter to him while the postmaster, experiencing the contentment of a man who has performed a good deed, looked on from his office. 
Lencho showed not the slightest surprise on seeing the money; such was his confidence — but he became angry when he counted the money. 
God could not have made a mistake, nor could he have denied Lencho what he had requested.
Immediately, Lencho went up to the window to ask for paper and ink. 
On the public writing-table, he started to write, with much wrinkling of his brow, caused by the effort he had to make to express his ideas. 
When he finished, he went to the window to buy a stamp which he licked and then affixed to the envelope with a blow of his fist. 
The moment the letter fell into the mailbox the postmaster went to open it. 
It said: “God: Of the money that I asked for, only seventy pesos reached me. 
Send me the rest, since I need it very much. 
But don’t send it to me through the mail because the post office employees are a bunch of crooks. Lencho.”. 
The italicised parts of the sentences give us more information about Lencho and the woman. 
We call them relative clauses. 
Notice that they begin with a relative pronoun who. 
Other common relative pronouns are whom, whose, and which. 
The relative clauses in (a) and (b) above are called non-defining, because we already know the identity of the person they describe. 
Lencho is a particular person, and there is a particular woman he speaks to. 
We don’t need the information in the relative clause to pick these people out from a larger set. 
A non-defining relative clause usually has a comma in front of it and a comma after it (some writers use a dash (—) instead, as in the story). 
If the relative clause comes at the end, we just put a full stop. 
Dear Arti, How are you? I’m sorry I haven’t written for a very long time. 
I think I last sent you a birthday card in the month of September 2005. 
We have just moved house (see our new address above). 
This is our new home. 
Sarah has just about started going to school. 
We have admitted her to ‘Little Feet’ as this is very close to our new home. 
I’m sitting here by the window sill, writing to you. 
There is a slight drizzle outside and I’m reminded of the good times we had together at Bangalore last year. 
Do write back. Love, Jaya. 
The way a crow Shook down on me The dust of snow From a hemlock tree Has given my heart 
A change of mood And saved some part Of a day I had rued. 
Some say the world will end in fire Some say in ice. 
From what I’ve tasted of desire I hold with those who favour fire. 
But if it had to perish twice, I think I know enough of hate To say that for destruction ice Is also great And would suffice. 
‘Apartheid’ is a political system that separates people according to their race. 
In this extract from his autobiography, Long Walk to Freedom, Mandela speaks about a historic occasion, ‘the inauguration’. 
Can you guess what the occasion might be? Nelson Mandela has become South Africa’s first Black President after more than three centuries of white rule. 
Mr Mandela’s African National Congress (ANC) party won 252 of the 400 seats in the first democratic elections of South Africa’s history. 
The inauguration ceremony took place in the Union Buildings amphitheatre in Pretoria today, attended by politicians and dignitaries from more than 140 countries around the world. 
“Never, never again will this beautiful land experience the oppression of one by another,” said Nelson Mandela in his address. 
Jubilant scenes on the streets of Pretoria followed the ceremony with blacks, whites and coloureds celebrating together. 
More than 100,000 South African men, women and children of all races sang and danced with joy. TENTH May dawned bright and clear. 
For the past few days I had been pleasantly besieged by dignitaries and world leaders who were coming to pay their respects before the inauguration. 
The inauguration would be the largest gathering ever of international leaders on South African soil. 
The ceremonies took place in the lovely sandstone amphitheatre formed by the Union Buildings in Pretoria. 
For decades this had been the seat of white supremacy, and now it was the site of a rainbow gathering of different colours and nations for the installation of South Africa’s first democratic, non-racial government. 
On that lovely autumn day I was accompanied by my daughter Zenani. 
On the podium, Mr de Klerk was first sworn in as second deputy president. 
Then Thabo Mbeki was sworn in as first deputy president. 
When it was my turn, I pledged to obey and uphold the Constitution and to devote myself to the wellbeing of the Republic and its people. 
To the assembled guests and the watching world, I said: Today, all of us do, by our presence here... confer glory and hope to newborn liberty. 
Out of the experience of an extraordinary human disaster that lasted too long, must be born a society of which all humanity will be proud. 
We, who were outlaws not so long ago, have today been given the rare privilege to be host to the nations of the world on our own soil. 
We thank all of our distinguished international guests for having come to take possession with the people of our country of what is, after all, a common victory for justice, for peace, for human dignity. 
We have, at last, achieved our political emancipation. 
We pledge ourselves to liberate all our people from the continuing bondage of poverty, deprivation, suffering, gender and other discrimination. 
Never, never, and never again shall it be that this beautiful land will again experience the oppression of one by another. 
The sun shall never set on so glorious a human achievement. 
Let freedom reign. 
God bless Africa! A few moments later we all lifted our eyes in awe as a spectacular array of South African jets, helicopters and troop carriers roared in perfect formation over the Union Buildings. 
It was not only a display of pinpoint precision and military force, but a demonstration of the military’s loyalty to democracy, to a new government that had been freely and fairly elected. 
Only moments before, the highest generals of the South African defence force and police, their chests bedecked with ribbons and medals from days gone by, saluted me and pledged their loyalty. 
I was not unmindful of the fact that not so many years before they would not have saluted but arrested me. 
Finally a chevron of Impala jets left a smoke trail of the black, red, green, blue and gold of the new South African flag. 
The day was symbolised for me by the playing of our two national anthems, and the vision of whites singing ‘Nkosi Sikelel –iAfrika’ and blacks singing ‘Die Stem’, the old anthem of the Republic. 
Although that day neither group knew the lyrics of the anthem they once despised, they would soon know the words by heart. 
On the day of the inauguration, I was overwhelmed with a sense of history. 
In the first decade of the twentieth century, a few years after the bitter Anglo-Boer war and before my own birth, the white-skinned peoples of South Africa patched up their differences and erected a system of racial domination against the dark-skinned peoples of their own land. 
The structure they created formed the basis of one of the harshest, most inhumane, societies the world has ever known. 
Now, in the last decade of the twentieth century, and my own eighth decade as a man, that system had been overturned forever and replaced by one that recognised the rights and freedoms of all peoples, regardless of the colour of their skin. 
That day had come about through the unimaginable sacrifices of thousands of my people, people whose suffering and courage can never be counted or repaid. 
I felt that day, as I have on so many other days, that I was simply the sum of all those African patriots who had gone before me. 
That long and noble line ended and now began again with me. 
I was pained that I was not able to thank them and that they were not able to see what their sacrifices had wrought. 
The policy of apartheid created a deep and lasting wound in my country and my people. 
All of us will spend many years, if not generations, recovering from that profound hurt.
But the decades of oppression and brutality had another, unintended, effect, and that was that it produced the Oliver Tambos, the Walter Sisulus, the Chief Luthulis, the Yusuf Dadoos, the Bram Fischers, the Robert Sobukwes of our time* — men of such extraordinary courage, wisdom and generosity that their like may never be known again. 
Perhaps it requires such depths of oppression to create such heights of character. 
My country is rich in the minerals and gems that lie beneath its soil, but I have always known that its greatest wealth is its people, finer and truer than the purest diamonds. 
It is from these comrades in the struggle that I learned the meaning of courage. 
Time and again, I have seen men and women risk and give their lives for an idea. 
I have seen men stand up to attacks and torture without breaking, showing a strength and resilience that defies the imagination. I learned that courage was not the absence of fear, but the triumph over it. The brave man is not he who does not feel afraid, but he who conquers that fear. 
No one is born hating another person because of the colour of his skin, or his background, or his religion. 
People must learn to hate, and if they can learn to hate, they can be taught to love, for love comes more naturally to the human heart than its opposite. 
Even in the grimmest times in prison, when my comrades and I were pushed to our limits, I would see a glimmer of humanity in one of the guards, perhaps just for a second, but it was enough to reassure me and keep me going. 
Man’s goodness is a flame that can be hidden but never extinguished. 
In life, every man has twin obligations — obligations to his family, to his parents, to his wife and children; and he has an obligation to his people, his community, his country. 
In a civil and humane society, each man is able to fulfil those obligations according to his own inclinations and abilities. 
But in a country like South Africa, it was almost impossible for a man of my birth and colour to fulfil both of those obligations. 
In South Africa, a man of colour who attempted to live as a human being was punished and isolated. 
In South Africa, a man who tried to fulfil his duty to his people was inevitably ripped from his family and his home and was forced to live a life apart, a twilight existence of secrecy and rebellion. 
I did not in the beginning choose to place my people above my family, but in attempting to serve my people, I found that I was prevented from fulfilling my obligations as a son, a brother, a father and a husband. 
I was not born with a hunger to be free. I was born free — free in every way that I could know. Free to run in the fields near my mother’s hut, free to swim in the clear stream that ran through my village, free to roast mealies under the stars and ride the broad backs of slow-moving bulls. 
As long as I obeyed my father and abided by the customs of my tribe, I was not troubled by the laws of man or God. 
It was only when I began to learn that my boyhood freedom was an illusion, when I discovered as a young man that my freedom had already been taken from me, that I began to hunger for it. 
At first, as a student, I wanted freedom only for myself, the transitory freedoms of being able to stay out at night, read what I pleased and go where I chose. 
Later, as a young man in Johannesburg, I yearned for the basic and honourable freedoms of achieving my potential, of earning my keep, of marrying and having a family — the freedom not to be obstructed in a lawful life. 
But then I slowly saw that not only was I not free, but my brothers and sisters were not free. 
I saw that it was not just my freedom that was curtailed, but the freedom of everyone who looked like I did. 
That is when I joined the African National Congress, and that is when the hunger for my own freedom became the greater hunger for the freedom of my people. 
It was this desire for the freedom of my people to live their lives with dignity and selfrespect that animated my life, that transformed a frightened young man into a bold one, that drove a law-abiding attorney to become a criminal, that turned a family-loving husband into a man without a home, that forced a life-loving man to live like a monk. 
I am no more virtuous or self-sacrificing than the next man, but I found that I could not even enjoy the poor and limited freedoms I was allowed when I knew my people were not free. 
Freedom is indivisible; the chains on anyone of my people were the chains on all of them, the chains on all of my people were the chains on me. 
I knew that the oppressor must be liberated just as surely as the oppressed. 
A man who takes away another man’s freedom is a prisoner of hatred; he is locked behind the bars of prejudice and narrowmindedness. 
I am not truly free if I am taking away someone else’s freedom, just as surely as I am not free when my freedom is taken from me. 
The oppressed and the oppressor alike are robbed of their humanity. 
This poem contrasts a tiger in the zoo with the tiger in its natural habitat. 
The poem moves from the zoo to the jungle, and back again to the zoo. 
Read the poem silently once, and say which stanzas speak about the tiger in the zoo, and which ones speak about the tiger in the jungle. 
He stalks in his vivid stripes, The few steps of his cage, On pads of velvet quiet, In his quiet rage. He should be lurking in shadow, Sliding through long grass, Near the water hole, Where plump deer pass. 
He should be snarling around houses, At the jungle’s edge, Baring his white fangs, his claws, Terrorising the village! 
But he’s locked in a concrete cell, His strength behind bars, Stalking the length of his cage, Ignoring visitors. 
He hears the last voice at night, The patrolling cars, And stares with his brilliant eyes, At the brilliant stars. 
His vision, from the constantly passing bars, has grown so weary that it cannot hold anything else. 
It seems to him there are a thousand bars; and behind the bars, no world. As he paces in cramped circles, over and over, the movement of his powerful soft strides is like a ritual dance around a centre in which a mighty will stands paralysed. 
Only at times, the curtain of the pupils lifts, quietly. 
An image enters in, rushes down through the tensed, arrested muscles, plunges into the heart and is gone. 
THE young seagull was alone on his ledge. 
His two brothers and his sister had already flown away the day before. 
He had been afraid to fly with them. 
Somehow when he had taken a little run forward to the brink of the ledge and attempted to flap his wings he became afraid. 
The great expanse of sea stretched down beneath, and it was such a long way down — miles down. He felt certain that his wings would never support him; so he bent his head and ran away back to the little hole under the ledge where he slept at night. 
Even when each of his brothers and his little sister, whose wings were far shorter than his own, ran to the brink, flapped their wings, and flew away, he failed to muster up courage to take that plunge which appeared to him so desperate. 
His father and mother had come around calling to him shrilly, upbraiding him, threatening to let him starve on his ledge unless he flew away. 
But for the life of him he could not move. 
That was twenty-four hours ago. 
Since then nobody had come near him. 
The day before, all day long, he had watched his parents flying about with his brothers and sister, perfecting them in the art of flight, teaching them how to skim the waves and how to dive for fish. 
He had, in fact, seen his older brother catch his first herring and devour it, standing on a rock, while his parents circled around raising a proud cackle. 
And all the morning the whole family had walked about on the big plateau midway down the opposite cliff taunting him with his cowardice. 
The sun was now ascending the sky, blazing on his ledge that faced the south. 
He felt the heat because he had not eaten since the previous nightfall. 
He stepped slowly out to the brink of the ledge, and standing on one leg with the other leg hidden under his wing, he closed one eye, then the other, and pretended to be falling asleep. Still they took no notice of him. 
He saw his two brothers and his sister lying on the plateau dozing with their heads sunk into their necks. 
His father was preening the feathers on his white back. 
Only his mother was looking at him. 
She was standing on a little high hump on the plateau, her white breast thrust forward.
Now and again, she tore at a piece of fish that lay at her feet and then scrapped each side of her beak on the rock. The sight of the food maddened him. 
How he loved to tear food that way, scrapping his beak now and again to whet it. “Ga, ga, ga,” he cried begging her to bring him some food. 
“Gaw-col-ah,” she screamed back derisively. 
But he kept calling plaintively, and after a minute or so he uttered a joyful scream. 
His mother had picked up a piece of the fish and was flying across to him with it. 
He leaned out eagerly, tapping the rock with his feet, trying to get nearer to her as she flew across. But when she was just opposite to him, she halted, her wings motionless, the piece of fish in her beak almost within reach of his beak. 
He waited a moment in surprise, wondering why she did not come nearer, and then, maddened by hunger, he dived at the fish. 
With a loud scream he fell outwards and downwards into space. 
Then a monstrous terror seized him and his heart stood still. 
He could hear nothing. 
But it only lasted a minute. 
The next moment he felt his wings spread outwards. 
The wind rushed against his breast feathers, then under his stomach, and against his wings. 
He could feel the tips of his wings cutting through the air. 
He was not falling headlong now. He was soaring gradually downwards and outwards. 
He was no longer afraid. He just felt a bit dizzy. 
Then he flapped his wings once and he soared upwards. 
“Ga, ga, ga, Ga, ga, ga, Gaw-col-ah,” his mother swooped past him, her wings making a loud noise. He answered her with another scream. 
Then his father flew over him screaming. 
He saw his two brothers and his sister flying around him curveting and banking and soaring and diving. 
Then he completely forgot that he had not always been able to fly, and commended himself to dive and soar and curve, shrieking shrilly. 
He was near the sea now, flying straight over it, facing straight out over the ocean. 
He saw a vast green sea beneath him, with little ridges moving over it and he turned his beak sideways and cawed amusedly. 
His parents and his brothers and sister had landed on this green flooring ahead of him.
They were beckoning to him, calling shrilly. 
He dropped his legs to stand on the green sea. 
His legs sank into it. 
He screamed with fright and attempted to rise again flapping his wings. 
But he was tired and weak with hunger and he could not rise, exhausted by the strange exercise. His feet sank into the green sea, and then his belly touched it and he sank no farther. He was floating on it, and around him his family was screaming, praising him and their beaks were offering him scraps of dog-fish. 
He had made his first flight. 
THE moon was coming up in the east, behind me, and stars were shining in the clear sky above me. 
There wasn’t a cloud in the sky. 
I was happy to be alone high up above the sleeping countryside. 
I was flying my old Dakota aeroplane over France back to England. 
I was dreaming of my holiday and looking forward to being with my family. 
I looked at my watch: one thirty in the morning. 
‘I should call Paris Control soon,’ I thought. 
As I looked down past the nose of the aeroplane, I saw the lights of a big city in front of me. 
I switched on the radio and said, “Paris Control, Dakota DS 088 here. 
Can you hear me? I’m on my way to England. Over.” 
The voice from the radio answered me immediately: “DS 088, I can hear you. 
You ought to turn twelve degrees west now, DS 088. Over.” I checked the map and the compass, switched over to my second and last fuel tank, and turned the Dakota twelve degrees west towards England. 
‘I’ll be in time for breakfast,’ I thought. 
A good big English breakfast! Everything was going well — it was an easy flight. 
Paris was about 150 kilometres behind me when I saw the clouds. 
]They looked like black mountains standing in front of me across the sky. 
I knew I could not fly up and over them, and I did not have enough fuel to fly around them to the north or south. 
“I ought to go back to Paris,” I thought, but I wanted to get home. 
I wanted that breakfast. ‘I’ll take the risk,’ I thought, and flew that old Dakota straight into the storm. 
Inside the clouds, everything was suddenly black. 
It was impossible to see anything outside the aeroplane. 
The old aeroplane jumped and twisted in the air. 
I looked at the compass. 
I couldn’t believe my eyes: the compass was turning round and round and round. 
It was dead. It would not work! The other instruments were suddenly dead, too. 
I tried the radio. 
“Paris Control? Paris Control? Can you hear me?” There was no answer. 
The radio was dead too. I had no radio, no compass, and I could not see where I was. 
I was lost in the storm. 
Then, in the black clouds quite near me, I saw another aeroplane. 
It had no lights on its wings, but I could see it flying next to me through the storm. I could see the pilot’s face — turned towards me. 
I was very glad to see another person. He lifted one hand and waved. “Follow me,” he was saying. 
“Follow me.” ‘He knows that I am lost,’ I thought. ‘He’s trying to help me.’ He turned his aeroplane slowly to the north, in front of my Dakota, so that it would be easier for me to follow him. 
I was very happy to go behind the strange aeroplane like an obedient child. 
After half an hour the strange black aeroplane was still there in front of me in the clouds. 
Now there was only enough fuel in the old Dakota’s last tank to fly for five or ten minutes more. 
I was starting to feel frightened again. But then he started to go down and I followed through the storm. 
Suddenly I came out of the clouds and saw two long straight lines of lights in front of me. 
It was a runway! An airport! I was safe! I turned to look for my friend in the black aeroplane, but the sky was empty. 
There was nothing there. 
The black aeroplane was gone. 
I could not see it anywhere. 
I landed and was not sorry to walk away from the old Dakota near the control tower. 
I went and asked a woman in the control centre where I was and who the other pilot was. 
I wanted to say ‘Thank you’. She looked at me very strangely, and then laughed. 
“Another aeroplane? Up there in this storm? No other aeroplanes were flying tonight. 
Yours was the only one I could see on the radar.” So who helped me to arrive there safely without a compass or a radio, and without any more fuel in my tanks? Who was the pilot on the strange black aeroplane, flying in the storm, without lights? 
This humorous poem suggests some dangerous ways to identify (or ‘tell’) wild animals! Read it aloud, keeping to a strong and regular rhythm. 
Does ‘dyin’ really rhyme with ‘lion’? Can you say it in such a way that it does? How does the poet suggest that you identify the lion and the tiger? 
When can you do so, according to him? Do you think the words ‘lept‘ and ‘lep’ in the third stanza are spelt correctly? 
Why does the poet spell them like this? Do you know what a ‘bearhug’ is? It’s a friendly and strong hug — such as bears are thought to give, as they attack you! 
Again, hyenas are thought to laugh, and crocodiles to weep (‘crocodile tears’) as they swallow their victims. 
Are there similar expressions and popular ideas about wild animals in your own language(s)? Look at the line “A novice might nonplus”. 
How would you write this ‘correctly’? Why is the poet’s ‘incorrect’ line better in the poem? Can you find other examples of poets taking liberties with language, either in English or in your own language(s)? 
Can you find examples of humorous poems in your own language(s)? Much of the humour in the poem arises from the way language is used, although the ideas are funny as well. 
If there are particular lines in the poem that you especially like, share these with the class, speaking briefly about what it is about the ideas or the language that you like or find funny. A boy loses a ball. 
He is very upset. 
A ball doesn’t cost much, nor is it difficult to buy another ball. 
Why then is the boy so upset? Read the poem to see what the poet thinks has been lost, and what the boy has to learn from the experience of losing something. 
What is the boy now, who has lost his ball, What, what is he to do? 
I saw it go, Merrily bouncing, down the street, and then Merrily over — there it is in the water! No use to say ‘O there are other balls’: An ultimate shaking grief fixes the boy As he stands rigid, trembling, staring down All his young days into the harbour where His ball went. 
I would not intrude on him; A dime, another ball, is worthless. 
Now He senses first responsibility In a world of possessions. 
People will take Balls, balls will be lost always, little boy. 
And no one buys a ball back. Money is external. He is learning, well behind his desperate eyes, The epistemology of loss, how to stand up Knowing what every man must one day know And most know many days, how to stand up.Anneliese Marie ‘Anne’ Frank (12 June 1929 – February/March 1945) was a German – born Jewish girl who wrote while in hiding with her family and four friends in Amsterdam during the German occupation of the Netherlands in World War II. 
Her family had moved to Amsterdam after the Nazis gained power in Germany but were trapped when the Nazi occupation extended into the Netherlands. 
As persecutions against the Jewish population increased, the family went into hiding in July 1942 in hidden rooms in her father Otto Frank’s office building. 
After two years in hiding, the group was betrayed and transported to the concentration camp system where Anne died of typhus in Bergen-Belsen within days of her sister, Margot Frank. Her father, Otto, the only survivor of the group, returned to Amsterdam after the war ended, to find that her diary had been saved. 
Convinced that it was a unique record, he took action to have it published in English under the name The Diary of a Young Girl. 
The diary was given to Anne Frank for her thirteenth birthday and chronicles the events of her life from 12 June 1942 until its final entry of 1 August 1944. 
It was eventually translated from its original Dutch into many languages and became one of the world’s most widely read books. 
There have also been several films, television and theatrical productions, and even an opera, based on the diary. 
Described as the work of a mature and insightful mind, the diary provides an intimate examination of daily life under Nazi occupation. 
Anne Frank has become one of the most renowned and discussed of the Holocaust victims. WRITING in a diary is a really strange experience for someone like me. 
Not only because I’ve never written anything before, but also because it seems to me that later on neither I nor anyone else will be interested in the musings of a thirteen-year-old schoolgirl. 
Oh well, it doesn’t matter. I feel like writing, and I have an even greater need to get all kinds of things off my chest. 
‘Paper has more patience than people.’ I thought of this saying on one of those days when I was feeling a little depressed and was sitting at home with my chin in my hands, bored and listless, wondering whether to stay in or go out. 
I finally stayed where I was, brooding: Yes, paper does have more patience, and since I’m not planning to let anyone else read this stiff-backed notebook grandly referred to as a ‘diary’, unless I should ever find a real friend, it probably won’t make a bit of difference. 
Now I’m back to the point that prompted me to keep a diary in the first place: I don’t have a friend. 
Let me put it more clearly, since no one will believe that a thirteen-year-old girl is completely alone in the world. 
And I’m not. I have loving parents and a sixteen-year-old sister, and there are about thirty people I can call friends. 
I have a family, loving aunts and a good home. No, on the surface I seem to have everything, except my one true friend. 
All I think about when I’m with friends is having a good time. I can’t bring myself to talk about anything but ordinary everyday things. 
We don’t seem to be able to get any closer, and that’s the problem. 
Maybe it’s my fault that we don’t confide in each other. 
In any case, that’s just how things are, and unfortunately they’re not liable to change. This is why I’ve started the diary. 
To enhance the image of this long-awaited friend in my imagination, I don’t want to jot down the facts in this diary the way most people would do, but I want the diary to be my friend, and I’m going to call this friend ‘Kitty’. 
Since no one would understand a word of my stories to Kitty if I were to plunge right in, I’d better provide a brief sketch of my life, much as I dislike doing so. 
My father, the most adorable father I’ve ever seen, didn’t marry my mother until he was thirty-six and she was twenty-five. 
My sister, Margot, was born in Frankfurt in Germany in 1926. 
I was born on 12 June 1929. I lived in Frankfurt until I was four. 
My father emigrated to Holland in 1933. 
My mother, Edith Hollander Frank, went with him to Holland in September, while Margot and I were sent to Aachen to stay with our grandmother. 
Margot went to Holland in December, and I followed in February, when I was plunked down on the table as a birthday present for Margot. 
I started right away at the Montessori nursery school. I stayed there until I was six, at which time I started in the first form. 
In the sixth form my teacher was Mrs Kuperus, the headmistress. At the end of the year we were both in tears as we said a heartbreaking farewell. 
In the summer of 1941 Grandma fell ill and had to have an operation, so my birthday passed with little celebration. 
Grandma died in January 1942. No one knows how often I think of her and still love her.
This birthday celebration in 1942 was intended to make up for the other, and Grandma’s candle was lit along with the rest. 
The four of us are still doing well, and that brings me to the present date of 20 June 1942, and the solemn dedication of my diary. 
Dearest Kitty, Our entire class is quaking in its boots. 
The reason, of course, is the forthcoming meeting in which the teachers decide who’ll move up to the next form and who’ll be kept back. 
Half the class is making bets. G.N. and I laugh ourselves silly at the two boys behind us, C.N. and Jacques, who have staked their entire holiday savings on their bet. 
From morning to night, it’s “You’re going to pass”, “No, I’m not”, “Yes, you are”, “No, I’m not”. Even G.’s pleading glances and my angry outbursts can’t calm them down. 
If you ask me, there are so many dummies that about a quarter of the class should be kept back, but teachers are the most unpredictable creatures on earth. 
I’m not so worried about my girlfriends and myself. We’ll make it. 
The only subject I’m not sure about is maths. Anyway, all we can do is wait. 
Until then, we keep telling each other not to lose heart. 
I get along pretty well with all my teachers. There are nine of them, seven men and two women. 
Mr Keesing, the old fogey who teaches maths, was annoyed with me for ages because I talked so much. After several warnings, he assigned me extra homework. An essay on the subject, ‘A Chatterbox’. 
A chatterbox — what can you write about that? I’d worry about that later, I decided. 
I jotted down the title in my notebook, tucked it in my bag and tried to keep quiet. That evening, after I’d finished the rest of my homework, the note about the essay caught my eye. I began thinking about the subject while chewing the tip of my fountain pen. 
Anyone could ramble on and leave big spaces between the words, but the trick was to come up with convincing arguments to prove the necessity of talking. 
I thought and thought, and suddenly I had an idea. 
I wrote the three pages Mr Keesing had assigned me and was satisfied. I argued that talking is a student’s trait and that I would do my best to keep it under control,but that I would never be able to cure myself of the habit since my mother talked as much as I did if not more, and that there’s not much you can do about inherited traits. 
Mr Keesing had a good laugh at my arguments, but when I proceeded to talk my way through the next lesson, he assigned me a second essay. 
This time it was supposed to be on ‘An Incorrigible Chatterbox’. I handed it in, and Mr Keesing had nothing to complain about for two whole lessons. 
However, during the third lesson he’d finally had enough. “Anne Frank, as punishment for talking in class, write an essay entitled — ‘Quack, Quack, Quack, Said Mistress Chatterbox’.” 
The class roared. I had to laugh too, though I’d nearly exhausted my ingenuity on the topic of chatterboxes. 
It was time to come up with something else, something original. My friend, Sanne, who’s good at poetry, offered to help me write the essay from beginning to end in verse and I jumped for joy. 
Mr Keesing was trying to play a joke on me with this ridiculous subject, but I’d make sure the joke was on him. I finished my poem, and it was beautiful! 
It was about a mother duck and a father swan with three baby ducklings who were bitten to death by the father because they quacked too much. Luckily, Mr Keesing took the joke the right way. 
He read the poem to the class, adding his own comments, and to several other classes as well. 
Since then I’ve been allowed to talk and haven’t been assigned any extra homework. On the contrary, Mr Keesing’s always making jokes these days. 
Notice that contracted forms are also written with an apostrophe to show a shortening of the spelling of not, would, or is as in the above example. 
Writing a diary is like speaking to oneself. Plays (and often, novels) also have speech in written form. So we usually come across contracted forms in diaries, plays and novels.
Here is an extract adapted from a one-act play. In this extract, angry neighbours who think Joe the Inventor’s new spinning machine will make them lose their jobs come to destroy Joe’s model of the machine. 
You’ve just seen how contracted forms can make a written text sound like actual speech.
Try to make this extract sound more like a real conversation by changing some of the verbs back into contracted forms. 
Then speak out the lines.‘Diary language’ has some typical features such as subjectless sentences (Got up late in the morning), sentence fragments without subjects or verbs (…too bad, boring, not good), contracted forms (they’re, I’ve, can’t, didn’t, etc.), and everyday expressions which people use in speech. 
Remember not to use such language in more formal kinds of writing. Anne Frank’s diary became a public document after World War II. 
Discuss with your students diaries which became historical documents, such as Samuel Pepys’s diary. You may draw students’ attention to different types of diaries, e.g. private diary, general diary. Army officers, businessmen, doctors, executives, lawyers, motorists, police officers keep a general diary to record events that happen during the day and events that are scheduled for the day, such as appointments, meetings, things to be done, etc. September 2nd (Lord’s Day). 
Jane called us up about three in the morning, to tell us of a great fire they saw in the city. So I rose and slipped on my nightgown, and went to her window, and thought it to be on the backside of Marke-Lane at the farthest; but being unused to such fire as followed, I thought it far enough off, and so went to bed again and to sleep. 
About seven rose again to dress myself, and then looked out of the window, and saw the fire not so much as it was and further off. 
By and by Jane comes and tells me that she hears that above 300 houses have been burned down tonight by the fire we saw, and that it is now burning down all Fish Street, by London Bridge. So I made myself ready presently, and walked to the Tower, and there got up upon one of the high places, Sir J. Robinson’s little son going up with me; and there I did see the houses at that end of the bridge all on fire, and an infinite great fire on this and the other side of the bridge. 
Every child feels that she/he is controlled and instructed not to do one thing or another. You too may feel that your freedom is curtailed. 
Write down some of the things you want to do, but your parents/elders do not allow you to. To read the poem aloud, form pairs, each reading alternate stanzas. 
You are in for a surprise! How do we judge the people around us — by their money, wealth and possessions? Or is there something of more enduring value to look for in a person? This story is a sensitive account of how a poor young girl is judged by her classmates.
Wanda Petronski is a young Polish girl who goes to school with other American children in an American town. 
These other children see Wanda as ‘different’ in many ways. Can you guess how they treat her? Read the information in the box below. 
Find out more about this community (or about a related topic) from an encyclopedia, or the Internet. The first Polish immigrants arrived in America in 1608, but the largest wave of Polish immigration occurred in the early twentieth century, when more than one million Poles migrated to the United States. 
The Polish State did not exist at that time, and the immigrants were identified according to their country of origin rather than to ethnicity. 
They were identified as Russian Poles, German Poles and Austrian Poles. 
One of the most notable Polish-American communities is in Chicago and its suburbs; so Chicago is sometimes called the second largest ‘Polish’ city in the world, next only to Warsaw, the capital of Poland. 
Polish-Americans were sometimes discriminated against in the United States, as were the Irish, Italians, and Jews. 
According to the United States 2000 Census, 667,414 Americans of age five years and older reported Polish as the language spoken at home, which is about 1.4 per cent of the people who speak languages other than English, or 0.25 per cent of the U.S. population. 
TODAY, Monday, Wanda Petronski was not in her seat. But nobody, not even Peggy and Madeline, the girls who started all the fun, noticed her absence. 
Usually Wanda sat in the seat next to the last seat in the last row in Room Thirteen. 
She sat in the corner of the room where the rough boys who did not make good marks sat, the corner of the room where there was most scuffling of feet, most roars of laughter when anything funny was said, and most mud and dirt on the floor. 
Wanda did not sit there because she was rough and noisy. On the contrary, she was very quiet and rarely said anything at all. 
And nobody had ever heard her laugh out loud. 
Sometimes she twisted her mouth into a crooked sort of smile, but that was all. 
Nobody knew exactly why Wanda sat in that seat, unless it was because she came all the way from Boggins Heights and her feet were usually caked with dry mud. 
But no one really thought much about Wanda Petronski, once she sat in the corner of the room. The time when they thought about Wanda was outside of school hours — at noon-time when they were coming back to school or in the morning early before school began, when groups of two or three, or even more, would be talking and laughing on their way to the school yard. 
Then, sometimes, they waited for Wanda — to have fun with her. 
The next day, Tuesday, Wanda was not in school, either. 
And nobody noticed her absence again. 
But on Wednesday, Peggy and Maddie, who sat down front with other children who got good marks and who didn’t track in a whole lot of mud, did notice that Wanda wasn’t there.
Peggy was the most popular girl in school. 
She was pretty, she had many pretty clothes and her hair was curly. 
Maddie was her closest friend. 
The reason Peggy and Maddie noticed Wanda’s absence was because Wanda had made them late to school. They had waited and waited for Wanda, to have some fun with her, and she just hadn’t come. They often waited for Wanda Petronski — to have fun with her. 
Wanda Petronski. Most of the children in Room Thirteen didn’t have names like that. 
They had names easy to say, like Thomas, Smith or Allen. 
There was one boy named Bounce, Willie Bounce, and people thought that was funny, but not funny in the same way that Petronski was. 
Wanda didn’t have any friends. 
She came to school alone and went home alone. She always wore a faded blue dress that didn’t hang right. It was clean, but it looked as though it had never been ironed properly. 
She didn’t have any friends, but a lot of girls talked to her. Sometimes, they surrounded her in the school yard as she stood watching the little girls play hopscotch on the worn hard ground. 
“Wanda,” Peggy would say in a most courteous manner as though she were talking to Miss Mason. “Wanda,” she’d say, giving one of her friends a nudge, “tell us. 
How many dresses did you say you had hanging up in your closet?” 
“A hundred,” Wanda would say. “A hundred!” exclaimed all the little girls incredulously, and the little ones would stop playing hopscotch and listen. 
“Yeah, a hundred, all lined up,” said Wanda. 
Then her thin lips drew together in silence. “What are they like? All silk, I bet,” said Peggy. 
“Yeah, all silk, all colours.” “Velvet, too?” 
“Yeah, velvet too. A hundred dresses,” Wanda would repeat stolidly. 
“All lined up in my closet.” Then they’d let her go. 
And then before she’d gone very far, they couldn’t help bursting into shrieks and peals of laughter. A hundred dresses! Obviously, the only dress Wanda had was the blue one she wore every day. So why did she say she had a hundred? What a story! 
“How many shoes did you say you had?” “Sixty pairs. All lined up in my closet.” Cries of exaggerated politeness greeted this. 
“All alike?” “Oh, no. Every pair is different. All colours. All lined up.” Peggy, who had thought up this game, and Maddie, her inseparable friend, were always the last to leave.
Finally Wanda would move up the street, her eyes dull and her mouth closed, hitching her left shoulder every now and then in the funny way she had, finishing the walk to school alone. Peggy was not really cruel. 
She protected small children from bullies. And she cried for hours if she saw an animal mistreated. 
If anybody had said to her, “Don’t you think that is a cruel way to treat Wanda?” she would have been very surprised. 
Cruel? Why did the girl say she had a hundred dresses? Anybody could tell that that was a lie. 
Why did she want to lie? And she wasn’t just an ordinary person, else why did she have a name like that? Anyway,they never made her cry.
As for Maddie, this business of asking Wanda every day how many dresses and how many hats,and how many this and that she had was bothering her. 
Maddie was poor herself. 
She usually wore somebody’s hand-me-down clothes. 
Thank goodness, she didn’t live up on Boggins Heights or have a funny name. 
Sometimes, when Peggy was asking Wanda those questions in that mocking polite voice, Maddie felt embarrassed and studied the marbles in the palm of her hand, rolling them around and saying nothing herself. 
Not that she felt sorry for Wanda, exactly. She would never have paid any attention to Wanda if Peggy hadn’t invented the dresses game. 
But suppose Peggy and all the others started in on her next? She wasn’t as poor as Wanda, perhaps, but she was poor. 
Of course she would have more sense than to say she had a hundred dresses. Still she would not like for them to begin on her. 
She wished Peggy would stop teasing Wanda Petronski. 
Today, even though they had been late to school, Maddie was glad she had not had to make fun of Wanda. 
She worked her arithmetic problems absentmindedly. 
“Eight times eight — let’s see…” She wished she had the nerve to write Peggy a note, because she knew she never would have the courage to speak right out to Peggy, to say, “Hey, Peg, let’s stop asking Wanda how many dresses she has.” When she finished her arithmetic she did start a note to Peggy. 
Suddenly she paused and shuddered. She pictured herself in the school yard, a new target for Peggy and the girls. 
Peggy might ask her where she got the dress that she had on, and Maddie would have to say it was one of Peggy’s old ones that Maddie’s mother had tried to disguise with new trimmings so no one in Room Thirteen would recognise it. 
If only Peggy would decide of her own accord to stop having fun with Wanda. 
Oh, well! Maddie ran her hand through her short blonde hair as though to push the uncomfortable thoughts away. 
What difference did it make? Slowly Maddie tore into bits the note she had started. She was Peggy’s best friend, and Peggy was the best-liked girl in the whole room. 
Peggy could not possibly do anything that was really wrong, she thought. As for Wanda, she was just some girl who lived up on Boggins Heights and stood alone in the school yard. 
She scarcely ever said anything to anybody. The only time she talked was in the school yard about her hundred dresses. Maddie remembered her telling about one of her dresses, pale blue with coloured trimmings. And she remembered another that was brilliant jungle green with a red sash. “You’d look like a Christmas tree in that,” the girls had said in pretended admiration. Thinking about Wanda and her hundred dresses all lined up in the closet, Maddie began to wonder who was going to win the drawing and colouring contest. 
For girls, this contest consisted of designing dresses and for boys, of designing motorboats. Probably Peggy would win the girls’ medal. 
Peggy drew better than anyone else in the room. At least, that’s what everybody thought. She could copy a picture in a magazine or some film star’s head so that you could almost tell who it was. 
Oh, Maddie was sure Peggy would win. Well, tomorrow the teacher was going to announce the winners. Then they’d know. 
The next day it was drizzling. Maddie and Peggy hurried to school under Peggy’s umbrella. Naturally, on a day like this, they didn’t wait for Wanda Petronski on the corner of Oliver Street, the street that far, far away, under the railroad tracks and up the hill, led to Boggins Heights. 
Anyway, they weren’t taking chances on being late today, because today was important. “Do you think Miss Mason will announce the winners today?” asked Peggy. 
“Oh, I hope so, the minute we get in,” said Maddie. “Of course, you’ll win, Peg.” 
“Hope so,” said Peggy eagerly. The minute they entered the classroom, they stopped short and gasped. 
There were drawings all over the room, on every ledge and windowsill, dazzling colours and brilliant, lavish designs, all drawn on great sheets of wrapping paper. 
There must have been a hundred of them, all lined up. 
These must be the drawings for the contest. They were! Everybody stopped and whistled or murmured admiringly. 
As soon as the class had assembled, Miss Mason announced the winners. Jack Beggles had won for the boys, she said, and his design for an outboard motor was on exhibition in Room Twelve, along with the sketches by all the other boys. 
“As for the girls,” she said, “although just one or two sketches were submitted by most, one girl — and Room Thirteen should be proud of her — this one girl actually drew one hundred designs — all different and all beautiful. 
In the opinion of the judges, any one of the drawings is worthy of winning the prize. I am very happy to say that Wanda Petronski is the winner of the girls’ medal. Unfortunately, Wanda has been absent from school for some days and is not here to receive the applause that is due to her. Let us hope she will be back tomorrow. 
Now class, you may file around the room quietly and look at her exquisite drawings.” The children burst into applause, and even the boys were glad to have a chance to stamp on the floor, put their fingers in their mouths and whistle, though they were not interested in dresses. “Look, Peg,” whispered Maddie. 
“There’s that blue one she told us about. Isn’t it beautiful?” “Yes,” said Peggy, “And here’s that green one. Boy, and I thought I could draw.” 
WHILE the class was circling the room, the monitor from the principal’s office brought Miss Mason a note. Miss Mason read it several times and studied it thoughtfully for a while. Then she clapped her hands. “Attention, class. 
Everyone back to their seat.” When the shuffling of feet had stopped and the room was still and quiet, Miss Mason said, “I have a letter from Wanda’s father that I want to read to you.” 
Miss Mason stood there a moment and the silence in the room grew tense and expectant. The teacher adjusted her glasses slowly and deliberately. 
Her manner indicated that what was coming — this letter from Wanda’s father — was a matter of great importance. Everybody listened closely as Miss Mason read the brief note. Dear Teacher: My Wanda will not come to your school any more. Jake also. 
Now we move away to big city. No more holler ‘Pollack’. No more ask why funny name. Plenty of funny names in the big city. Yours truly, Jan Petronski. 
A deep silence met the reading of this letter. Miss Mason took off her glasses, blew on them and wiped them on her soft white handkerchief. 
Then she put them on again and looked at the class. When she spoke her voice was very low. “I am sure that none of the boys and girls in Room Thirteen would purposely and deliberately hurt anyone’s feelings because his or her name happened to be a long, unfamiliar one. 
I prefer to think that what was said was said in thoughtlessness. 
I know that all of you feel the way I do, that this is a very unfortunate thing to have happened — unfortunate and sad, both. And I want you all to think about it.” 
The first period was a study period. 
Maddie tried to prepare her lessons, but she could not put her mind on her work. 
She had a very sick feeling in the bottom of her stomach. 
True, she had not enjoyed listening to Peggy ask Wanda how many dresses she had in her closet, but she had said nothing. 
She had stood by silently, and that was just as bad as what Peggy had done. 
Worse. She was a coward. At least Peggy hadn’t considered they were being mean but she, Maddie, had thought they were doing wrong. 
She could put herself in Wanda’s shoes. Goodness! Wasn’t there anything she could do? If only she could tell Wanda she hadn’t meant to hurt her feelings. 
She turned around and stole a glance at Peggy, but Peggy did not look up. 
She seemed to be studying hard. Well, whether Peggy felt badly or not, she, Maddie, had to do something. She had to find Wanda Petronski. 
Maybe she had not yet moved away. 
Maybe Peggy would climb the Heights with her, and they would tell Wanda she had won the contest, that they thought she was smart and the hundred dresses were beautiful. 
When school was dismissed in the afternoon, Peggy said, with pretended casualness, “Hey, let’s go and see if that kid has left town or not.” 
So Peggy had had the same idea! Maddie glowed. Peg was really all right. The two girls hurried out of the building, up the street toward Boggins Heights, the part of town that wore such a forbidding air on this kind of a November afternoon, drizzly, damp and dismal. “Well, at least,” said Peggy gruffly, “I never did call her a foreigner or make fun of her name. 
I never thought she had the sense to know we were making fun of her anyway. I thought she was too dumb. And gee, look how she can draw!” Maddie could say nothing. 
All she hoped was that they would find Wanda. 
She wanted to tell her that they were sorry they had picked on her, and how wonderful the whole school thought she was, and please, not to move away and everybody would be nice. She and Peggy would fight anybody who was not nice. The two girls hurried on. 
They hoped to get to the top of the hill before dark. “I think that’s where the Petronskis live,” said Maddie, pointing to a little white house. 
Wisps of old grass stuck up here and there along the pathway like thin kittens. The house and its sparse little yard looked shabby but clean. It reminded Maddie of Wanda’s one dress, her faded blue cotton dress, shabby but clean. 
There was not a sign of life about the house. Peggy knocked firmly on the door, but there was no answer. She and Maddie went around to the back yard and knocked there. Still there was no answer. There was no doubt about it. 
The Petronskis were gone. How could they ever make amends? They turned slowly and made their way back down the hill. “Well, anyway,” said Peggy, “she’s gone now, so what can we do? Besides, when I was asking her about all her dresses, she probably was getting good ideas for her drawings. 
She might not even have won the contest, otherwise.” Maddie turned this idea carefully over in her head, for if there were anything in it she would not have to feel so badly.
But that night she could not get to sleep. She thought about Wanda and her faded blue dress and the little house she had lived in. 
And she thought of the glowing picture those hundred dresses made — all lined up in the classroom. At last Maddie sat up in bed and pressed her forehead tight in her hands and really thought. This was the hardest thinking she had ever done. 
After a long, long time, she reached an important conclusion. She was never going to stand by and say nothing again. If she ever heard anybody picking on someone because they were funny looking or because they had strange names, she’d speak up. 
Even if it meant losing Peggy’s friendship. She had no way of making things right with Wanda, but from now on she would never make anybody else that unhappy again. On Saturday Maddie spent the afternoon with Peggy. 
They were writing a letter to Wanda Petronski. It was just a friendly letter telling about the contest and telling Wanda she had won. 
They told her how pretty her drawings were. And they asked her if she liked where she was living and if she liked her new teacher. 
They had meant to say they were sorry, but it ended up with their just writing a friendly letter, the kind they would have written to any good friend, and they signed it with lots of X’s for love. They mailed the letter to Boggins Heights, writing ‘Please Forward’ on the envelope. Days passed and there was no answer, but the letter did not come back, so maybe Wanda had received it. 
Perhaps she was so hurt and angry she was not going to answer. You could not blame her. Weeks went by and still Wanda did not answer. 
Peggy had begun to forget the whole business, and Maddie put herself to sleep at night making speeches about Wanda, defending her from great crowds of girls who were trying to tease her with, “How many dresses have you got?” And before Wanda could press her lips together in a tight line, the way she did before answering, Maddie would cry out, “Stop!” Then everybody would feel ashamed the way she used to feel. 
Now it was Christmas time and there was snow on the ground. 
Christmas bells and a small tree decorated the classroom. 
On the last day of school before the holidays, the teacher showed the class a letter she had received that morning. 
“You remember Wanda Petronski, the gifted little artist who won the drawing contest? Well, she has written me, and I am glad to know where she lives, because now I can send her medal. I want to read her letter to you.” 
The class sat up with a sudden interest and listened intently. 
Dear Miss Mason, How are you and Room Thirteen? Please tell the girls they can keep those hundred dresses, because in my new house I have a hundred new ones, all lined up in my closet. 
I’d like that girl Peggy to have the drawing of the green dress with the red trimming, and her friend Maddie to have the blue one. 
For Christmas, I miss that school and my new teacher does not equalise with you. 
Merry Christmas to you and everybody. Yours truly, Wanda Petronski. 
On the way home from school Maddie and Peggy held their drawings very carefully. 
All the houses had wreaths and holly in the windows. Outside the grocery store, hundreds of Christmas trees were stacked, and in the window, candy peppermint sticks and cornucopias of shiny transparent paper were strung. 
The air smelled like Christmas and light shining everywhere reflected different colours on the snow. “Boy!” said Peggy, “this shows she really likes us. 
It shows she got our letter and this is her way of saying that everything’s all right. And that’s that.” “I hope so,” said Maddie sadly. 
She felt sad because she knew she would never see the little tight-lipped Polish girl again and couldn’t ever really make things right between them. 
She went home and she pinned her drawing over a torn place in the pink-flowered wallpaper in the bedroom. The shabby room came alive from the brilliancy of the colours. 
Maddie sat down on her bed and looked at the drawing. She had stood by and said nothing, but Wanda had been nice to her, anyway. 
Tears blurred her eyes and she gazed for a long time at the picture. Then hastily she rubbed her eyes and studied it intently. 
The colours in the dress were so vivid that she had scarcely noticed the face and head of the drawing. But it looked like her, Maddie! 
It really looked like her own mouth. Why it really looked like her own self! Wanda had really drawn this for her. 
Excitedly, she ran over to Peggy’s. “Peg!” she said, “let me see your picture.” 
“What’s the matter?” asked Peggy, as they clattered up to her room where Wanda’s drawing was lying face down on the bed. Maddie carefully raised it. 
“Look! She drew you. That’s you!” she exclaimed. And the head and face of this picture did look like Peggy. “What did I say!” said Peggy, “She must have really liked us, anyway.”
“Yes, she must have,” agreed Maddie, and she blinked away the tears that came every time she thought of Wanda standing alone in that sunny spot in the school yard, looking stolidly over at the group of laughing girls after she had walked off, after she had said, “Sure, a hundred of them, all lined up.”. 
Help your students conduct a survey in their class to find out about the different talents that their classmates possess — anything from cooking to painting to singing to gardening. Divide the class into two equal sections, A and B. 
Each student from Section A talks with one student from Section B, and they interview each other for five or ten minutes, so that at the end of that time all the students have been interviewed. 
Then about five students from each section (more if there is time) talk about the talents of the person they interviewed. Make sure that some of the more ‘marginalised’ students from your class (each class has some of them) have their moment of ‘fame.’
The poet tells us that he feels more at home with animals than humans, whom he finds complicated and false. Walt Whitman (1819 – 92) is a major figure in early American poetry. In an age when all poetry was rhymed and metrical, Whitman made a break with tradition and wrote a revolutionary new kind of poetry in free verse. 
He was a nonconformist in all respects, including his social life. What are the ‘tokens’ that the poet says he may have dropped long ago, and which the animals have kept for him? Discuss this in class. (Hint: Whitman belongs to the Romantic tradition that includes Rousseau and Wordsworth, which holds that civilisation has made humans false to their own true nature. What could be the basic aspects of our nature as living beings that humans choose to ignore or deny?).
OUR elders are often heard reminiscing nostalgically about those good old Portuguese days, the Portuguese and their famous loaves of bread. 
Those eaters of loaves might have vanished but the makers are still there. We still have amongst us the mixers, the moulders and those who bake the loaves. 
Those age-old, timetested furnaces still exist. The fire in the furnaces has not yet been extinguished. The thud and jingle of the traditional baker’s bamboo, heralding his arrival in the morning, can still be heard in some places. 
Maybe the father is not alive but the son still carries on the family profession. These bakers are, even today, known as pader in Goa. 
During our childhood in Goa, the baker used to be our friend, companion and guide. He used to come at least twice a day. 
Once, when he set out in the morning on his selling round, and then again, when he returned after emptying his huge basket. 
The jingling thud of his bamboo woke us up from sleep and we ran to meet and greet him. Why was it so? Was it for the love of the loaf? Not at all. 
The loaves were bought by some Paskine or Bastine, the maid-servant of the house! What we longed for were those bread-bangles which we chose carefully. 
Sometimes it was sweet bread of special make. The baker made his musical entry on the scene with the ‘jhang, jhang’ sound of his specially made bamboo staff. 
One hand supported the basket on his head and the other banged the bamboo on the ground. He would greet the lady of the house with “Good morning” and then place his basket on the vertical bamboo. We kids would be pushed aside with a mild rebuke and the loaves would be delivered to the servant. But we would not give up. 
We would climb a bench or the parapet and peep into the basket, somehow. I can still recall the typical fragrance of those loaves. 
Loaves for the elders and the bangles for the children. Then we did not even care to brush our teeth or wash our mouths properly. 
And why should we? Who would take the trouble of plucking the mango-leaf for the toothbrush? And why was it necessary at all? The tiger never brushed his teeth. Hot tea could wash and clean up everything so nicely, after all! 
Marriage gifts are meaningless without the sweet bread known as the bol, just as a party or a feast loses its charm without bread. 
Not enough can be said to show how important a baker can be for a village. The lady of the house must prepare sandwiches on the occasion of her daughter’s engagement. 
Cakes and bolinhas are a must for Christmas as well as other festivals. Thus, the presence of the baker’s furnace in the village is absolutely essential. 
The baker or bread-seller of those days had a peculiar dress known as the kabai. It was a singlepiece long frock reaching down to the knees. 
In our childhood we saw bakers wearing a shirt and trousers which were shorter than full-length ones and longer than half pants. 
Even today, anyone who wears a half pant which reaches just below the knees invites the comment that he is dressed like a pader! 
The baker usually collected his bills at the end of the month. Monthly accounts used to be recorded on some wall in pencil. 
Baking was indeed a profitable profession in the old days. The baker and his family never starved. He, his family and his servants always looked happy and prosperous. Their plump physique was an open testimony to this. 
Even today any person with a jackfruit-like physical appearance is easily compared to a baker. MIDWAY between Mysore and the coastal town of Mangalore sits a piece of heaven that must have drifted from the kingdom of god. 
This land of rolling hills is inhabited by a proud race of martial men, beautiful women and wild creatures. Coorg, or Kodagu, the smallest district of Karnataka, is home to evergreen rainforests, spices and coffee plantations. 
Evergreen rainforests cover thirty per cent of this district. During the monsoons, it pours enough to keep many visitors away. 
The season of joy commences from September and continues till March. The weather is perfect, with some showers thrown in for good measure. 
The air breathes of invigorating coffee. Coffee estates and colonial bungalows stand tucked under tree canopies in prime corners. 
The fiercely independent people of Coorg are possibly of Greek or Arabic descent. As one story goes, a part of Alexander’s army moved south along the coast and settled here when return became impractical. 
These people married amongst the locals and their culture is apparent in the martial traditions, marriage and religious rites, which are distinct from the Hindu mainstream. The theory of Arab origin draws support from the long, black coat with an embroidered waist-belt worn by the Kodavus. 
Known as kuppia, it resembles the kuffia worn by the Arabs and the Kurds. Coorgi homes have a tradition of hospitality, and they are more than willing to recount numerous tales of valour related to their sons and fathers. 
The Coorg Regiment is one of the most decorated in the Indian Army, and the first Chief of the Indian Army, General Cariappa, was a Coorgi. 
Even now, Kodavus are the only people in India permitted to carry firearms without a licence. The river, Kaveri, obtains its water from the hills and forests of Coorg. Mahaseer — a large freshwater fish — abound in these waters. 
Kingfishers dive for their catch, while squirrels and langurs drop partially eaten fruit for the mischief of enjoying the splash and the ripple effect in the clear water. Elephants enjoy being bathed and scrubbed in the river by their mahouts. 
The most laidback individuals become converts to the life of high-energy adventure with river rafting, canoeing, rappelling, rock climbing and mountain biking. Numerous walking trails in this region are a favourite with trekkers. 
Birds, bees and butterflies are there to give you company. Macaques, Malabar squirrels, langurs and slender loris keep a watchful eye from the tree canopy. 
I do, however, prefer to step aside for wild elephants. The climb to the Brahmagiri hills brings you into a panoramic view of the entire misty landscape of Coorg. 
A walk across the rope bridge leads to the sixty-four-acre island of Nisargadhama. 
Running into Buddhist monks from India’s largest Tibetan settlement, at nearby Bylakuppe, is a bonus. The monks, in red, ochre and yellow robes, are amongst the many surprises that wait to be discovered by visitors searching for the heart and soul of India, right here in Coorg.
Pranjol, a youngster from Assam, is Rajvir’s classmate at school in Delhi. Pranjol’s father is the manager of a tea-garden in Upper Assam and Pranjol has invited Rajvir to visit his home during the summer vacation. “Give us two cups,” Pranjol said. 
They sipped the steaming hot liquid. Almost everyone in their compartment was drinking tea too. “Do you know that over eighty crore cups of tea are drunk every day throughout the world?” Rajvir said. “Whew!” exclaimed Pranjol. 
“Tea really is very popular.” The train pulled out of the station. Pranjol buried his nose in his detective book again. Rajvir too was an ardent fan of detective stories, but at the moment he was keener on looking at the beautiful scenery. 
It was green, green everywhere. Rajvir had never seen so much greenery before. 
Then the soft green paddy fields gave way to tea bushes. It was a magnificent view. Against the backdrop of densely wooded hills a sea of tea bushes stretched as far as the eye could see. Dwarfing the tiny tea plants were tall sturdy shade-trees and amidst the orderly rows of bushes busily moved doll-like figures. 
In the distance was an ugly building with smoke billowing out of tall chimneys. “Hey, a tea garden!” Rajvir cried excitedly. Pranjol, who had been born and brought up on a plantation, didn’t share Rajvir’s excitement. 
“Oh, this is tea country now,” he said. “Assam has the largest concentration of plantations in the world. You will see enough gardens to last you a lifetime!” “I have been reading as much as I could about tea,” Rajvir said. 
“No one really knows who discovered tea but there are many legends.” “What legends?” “Well, there’s the one about the Chinese emperor who always boiled water before drinking it. One day a few leaves of the twigs burning under the pot fell into the water giving it a delicious flavour. It is said they were tea leaves.” 
“Tell me another!” scoffed Pranjol. “We have an Indian legend too. Bodhidharma, an ancient Buddhist ascetic, cut off his eyelids because he felt sleepy during meditations. Ten tea plants grew out of the eyelids. 
The leaves of these plants when put in hot water and drunk banished sleep. “Tea was first drunk in China,” Rajvir added,“as far back as 2700 B.C.! In fact words such as tea, ‘chai’ and ‘chini’ are from Chinese. 
Tea came to Europe only in the sixteenth century and was drunk more as medicine than as beverage.” The train clattered into Mariani junction. 
The boys collected their luggage and pushed their way to the crowded platform. Pranjol’s parents were waiting for them. Soon they were driving towards Dhekiabari, the tea-garden managed by Pranjol’s father. 
An hour later the car veered sharply off the main road. They crossed a cattle-bridge and entered Dhekiabari Tea Estate. 
On both sides of the gravel-road were acre upon acre of tea bushes, all neatly pruned to the same height. Groups of tea-pluckers, with bamboo baskets on their backs, wearing plastic aprons, were plucking the newly sprouted leaves. 
Pranjol’s father slowed down to allow a tractor, pulling a trailer-load of tea leaves, to pass. “This is the second-flush or sprouting period, isn’t it, Mr Barua?” Rajvir asked.
“It lasts from May to July and yields the best tea.” “You seem to have done your homework before coming,” Pranjol’s father said in surprise. 
“Yes, Mr Barua,” Rajvir admitted. “But I hope to learn much more while I’m here.” India and tea are so intertwined together that life without the brew is unimaginable. 
Tea entered our life only in the mid-nineteenth century when the British started plantations in Assam and Darjeeling! In the beginning though, Indians shunned the drink as they thought it was a poison that led to umpteen diseases. 
Ironically, tea colonised Britain where it became a part of their social diary and also led to the establishment of numerous tea houses. 
Adrienne Rich was born in Baltimore, Maryland, U.S.A. in 1929. She is the author of nearly twenty volumes of poetry, and has been called a feminist and a radical poet. Gavin Maxwell lives in a cottage in Camusfearna, in the West Highlands in Scotland. 
When his dog Jonnie died, Maxwell was too sad to think of keeping a dog again. But life without a pet was lonely... Read what happened then, in Maxwell’s own words. 
Owning a pet is a lifetime of commitment (up to ten years or more if you own a dog or a cat) involving considerable responsibility. 
The decision to acquire one, therefore, should be made by the whole family. Without full agreement by everyone, the pet could end up unwanted. 
Puppies and kittens are so adorable, it is easy to understand why adults and children alike would be attracted to them. Unfortunately their cute looks are often a disadvantage, because people purchase them without consideration and the knowledge on how to take proper care of them. Otters are found in large numbers in the marshes (i.e. wet areas near lakes, rivers or seas) near Basra, a town in Iraq. 
Imagine you wanted to bring an otter from Iraq to London, as a pet. What special arrangements would you need to make for your pet otter? You would need to find a place with lots of water, for example. What other points should you think about? EARLY in the New Year of 1956 I travelled to Southern Iraq. 
By then it had crossed my mind that I should like to keep an otter instead of a dog, and that Camusfearna, ringed by water a stone’s throw from its door, would be an eminently suitable spot for this experiment. 
When I casually mentioned this to a friend, he as casually replied that I had better get one in the Tigris marshes, for there they were as common as mosquitoes, and were often tamed by the Arabs. We were going to Basra to the Consulate-General to collect and answer our mail from Europe. 
At the Consulate-General we found that my friend’s mail had arrived but that mine had not. I cabled to England, and when, three days later, nothing had happened, I tried to telephone. The call had to be booked twenty-four hours in advance. 
On the first day the line was out of order; on the second the exchange was closed for a religious holiday. On the third day there was another breakdown. 
My friend left, and I arranged to meet him in a week’s time. Five days later, my mail arrived. I carried it to my bedroom to read, and there,squatting on the floor, were two Arabs; beside them lay a sack that squirmed from time to time. 
They handed me a note from my friend: “Here is your otter...” With the opening of that sack began a phase of my life that has not yet ended, and may, for all I know, not end before I do. It is, in effect, a thraldom to otters, an otter fixation, that I have since found to be shared by most other people, who have ever owned one. 
The creature that emerged from this sack on to the spacious tiled floor of the Consulate bedroom resembled most of all a very small, medievally conceived, dragon. 
From the head to the tip of the tail he was coated with symmetrical pointed scales of mud armour, between whose tips was visible a soft velvet fur like that of a chocolate-brown mole. He shook himself, and I half expected a cloud of dust, but in fact it was not for another month that I managed to remove the last of the mud and see the otter, as it were, in his true colours. 
Mijbil, as I called the otter, was, in fact, of a race previously unknown to science, and was at length christened by zoologists Lutrogale perspicillata maxwelli, or Maxwell’s otter. 
For the first twentyfour hours Mijbil was neither hostile nor friendly; he was simply aloof and indifferent, choosing to sleep on the floor as far from my bed as possible. 
The second night Mijbil came on to my bed in the small hours and remained asleep in the crook of my knees until the servant brought tea in the morning, and during the day he began to lose his apathy and take a keen, much too keen, interest in his surroundings. 
I made a body-belt for him and took him on a lead to the bathroom, where for half an hour he went wild with joy in the water, plunging and rolling in it, shooting up and down the length of the bathtub underwater, and making enough slosh and splash for a hippo. 
This, I was to learn, is a characteristic of otters; every drop of water must be, so to speak, extended and spread about the place; a bowl must at once be overturned, or, if it will not be overturned, be sat in and sploshed in until it overflows. 
Water must be kept on the move and made to do things; when static it is wasted and provoking. Two days later, Mijbil escaped from my bedroom as I entered it, and I turned to see his tail disappearing round the bend of the corridor that led to the bathroom. 
By the time I got there he was up on the end of the bathtub and fumbling at the chromium taps with his paws. I watched, amazed; in less than a minute he had turned the tap far enough to produce a trickle of water, and after a moment or two achieved the full flow.
(He had been lucky to turn the tap the right way; on later occasions he would sometimes screw it up still tighter, chittering with irritation and disappointment at the tap’s failure to cooperate.) 
Very soon Mij would follow me without a lead and come to me when I called his name. He spent most of his time in play. 
He spent hours shuffling a rubber ball round the room like a four-footed soccer player using all four feet to dribble the ball, and he could also throw it, with a powerful flick of the neck, to a surprising height and distance. 
But the real play of an otter is when he lies on his back and juggles with small objects between his paws. Marbles were Mij’s favourite toys for this pastime: he would lie on his back rolling two or more of them up and down his wide, flat belly without ever dropping one to the floor. 
The days passed peacefully at Basra, but I dreaded the prospect of transporting Mij to England, and to Camusfearna. 
The British airline to London would not fly animals, so I booked a flight to Paris on another airline, and from there to London. 
The airline insisted that Mij should be packed into a box not more than eighteen inches square, to be carried on the floor at my feet. 
I had a box made, and an hour before we started, I put Mij into the box so that he would become accustomed to it, and left for a hurried meal. 
When I returned, there was an appalling spectacle. There was complete silence from the box, but from its airholes and chinks around the lid, blood had trickled and dried. 
I whipped off the lock and tore open the lid, and Mij, exhausted and bloodspattered, whimpered and caught at my leg. He had torn the lining of the box to shreds; when I removed the last of it so that there were no cutting edges left, it was just ten minutes until the time of the flight, and the airport was five miles distant. 
I put the miserable Mij back into the box, holding down the lid with my hand. I sat in the back of the car with the box beside me as the driver tore through the streets of Basra like a ricochetting bullet. 
The aircraft was waiting to take off; I was rushed through to it by infuriated officials. Luckily, the seat booked for me was at the extreme front. 
I covered the floor around my feet with newspapers, rang for the air hostess, and gave her a parcel of fish (for Mij) to keep in a cool place. I took her into my confidence about the events of the last half hour. 
I have retained the most profound admiration for that air hostess; she was the very queen of her kind. She suggested that I might prefer to have my pet on my knee, and I could have kissed her hand in the depth of my gratitude. 
But, not knowing otters, I was quite unprepared for what followed. Mij was out of the box in a flash. He disappeared at high speed down the aircraft. 
There were squawks and shrieks, and a woman stood up on her seat screaming out, “A rat! A rat!” I caught sight of Mij’s tail disappearing beneath the legs of a portly whiteturbaned Indian. Diving for it, I missed, but found my face covered in curry. 
“Perhaps,” said the air hostess with the most charming smile, “it would be better if you resumed your seat, and I will find the animal and bring it to you.” I returned to my seat.
I was craning my neck trying to follow the hunt when suddenly I heard from my feet a distressed chitter of recognition and welcome, and Mij bounded on to my knee and began to nuzzle my face and my neck. Mij and I remained in London for nearly a month. 
He would play for hours with a selection of toys, ping-pong balls, marbles, rubber fruit, and a terrapin shell that I had brought back from his native marshes. 
With the ping-pong ball he invented a game of his own which could keep him engrossed for up to half an hour at a time. 
A suitcase that I had taken to Iraq had become damaged on the journey home, so that the lid, when closed, remained at a slope from one end to the other. 
Mij discovered that if he placed the ball on the high end it would run down the length of the suitcase. He would dash around to the other end to ambush its arrival, hide from it, crouching, to spring up and take it by surprise, grab it and trot off with it to the high end once more. 
Outside the house I exercised him on a lead, precisely as if he had been a dog. Mij quickly developed certain compulsive habits on these walks in the London streets, like the rituals of children who on their way to and from school must place their feet squarely on the centre of each paving block; musttouch every seventh upright of the iron railings, or pass to the outside of every second lamp post. 
Opposite to my flat was a single-storied primary school, alongwhose frontage ran a low wall some two feet high. On his way home, but never on his way out, Mij would tug me to this wall, jump on to it, and gallop the full length of its thirty yards, to the hopeless distraction both of pupils and of staff within. 
It is not, I suppose, in any way strange that the average Londoner should not recognise an otter, but the variety of guesses as to what kind of animal this might be came as a surprise to me. 
Otters belong to a comparatively small group of animals called Mustellines, shared by the badger, mongoose, weasel, stoat, mink and others. I faced a continuous barrage of conjectural questions that sprayed all the Mustellines but the otter; more random guesses hit on ‘a baby seal’ and ‘a squirrel.’ ‘Is that a walrus, mister?’ reduced me to giggles, and outside a dog show I heard ‘a hippo’. A beaver, a bear cub, a leopard — one, apparently, that had changed its spots — and a ‘brontosaur’; Mij was anything but an otter. 
But the question for which I awarded the highest score came from a labourer digging a hole in the street. I was still far from him when he laid down his tool, put his hands on his hips, and began to stare. 
As I drew nearer I saw his expression of surprise and affront, as though he would have me know that he was not one upon whom to play jokes. 
I came abreast of him; he spat, glared, and then growled out, “Here, Mister — what is that supposed to be?” You have seen how Maxwell describes Mij the otter’s feelings and thoughts by watching him. Play the game of dumb charades. 
Take turns to express a feeling or thought silently, through gestures. Let the class speak out their guesses about the feelings or thoughts you are trying to express. 
THERE was a girl named Valliammai who was called Valli for short. She was eight years old and very curious about things. Her favourite pastime was standing in the front doorway of her house, watching what was happening in the street outside. 
There were no playmates of her own age on her street, and this was about all she had to do. But for Valli, standing at the front door was every bit as enjoyable as any of the elaborate games other children played. 
Watching the street gave her many new unusual experiences. The most fascinating thing of all was the bus that travelled between her village and the nearest town. 
It passed through her street each hour, once going to the town and once coming back. The sight of the bus, filled each time with a new set of passengers, was a source of unending joy for Valli. Day after day she watched the bus, and gradually a tiny wish crept into her head and grew there: she wanted to ride on that bus, even if just once. 
This wish became stronger and stronger, until it was an overwhelming desire. Valli would stare wistfully at the people who got on or off the bus when it stopped at the street corner. 
Their faces would kindle in her longings, dreams, and hopes. If one of her friends happened to ride the bus and tried to describe the sights of the town to her, Valli would be too jealous to listen and would shout, in English: “Proud! proud!” Neither she nor her friends really understood the meaning of the word, but they used it often as a slang expression of disapproval. 
Over many days and months Valli listened carefully to conversations between her neighbours and people who regularly used the bus, and she also asked a few discreet questions here and there. 
This way she picked up various small details about the bus journey. The town was six miles from her village. The fare was thirty paise one way — “which is almost nothing at all,” she heard one well-dressed man say, but to Valli, who scarcely saw that much money from one month to the next, it seemed a fortune. 
The trip to the town took forty-five minutes. On reaching town, if she stayed in her seat and paid another thirty paise, she could return home on the same bus. 
This meant that she could take the one-o’clock afternoon bus, reach the town at one forty-five, and be back home by about two forty-five. On and on went her thoughts as she calculated and recalculated, planned and replanned. 
Well, one fine spring day the afternoon bus was just on the point of leaving the village and turning into the main highway when a small voice was heard shouting: “Stop the bus! Stop the bus!” And a tiny hand was raised commandingly. 
The bus slowed down to a crawl, and the conductor, sticking his head out the door, said, “Hurry then! Tell whoever it is to come quickly.” “It’s me,” shouted Valli. 
“I’m the one who has to get on.” By now the bus had come to a stop, and the conductor said, “Oh, really! You don’t say so!” “Yes, I simply have to go to town,” said Valli, still standing outside the bus, “and here’s my money.” She showed him some coins. 
“Okay, okay, but first you must get on the bus,” said the conductor, and he stretched out a hand to help her up. “Never mind,” she said, “I can get on by myself. You don’t have to help me.” The conductor was a jolly sort, fond of joking. 
“Oh, please don’t be angry with me, my fine madam,” he said. “Here, have a seat right up there in front. Everybody move aside please — make way for madam.” It was the slack time of day, and there were only six or seven passengers on the bus. 
They were all looking at Valli and laughing with the conductor. Valli was overcome with shyness. Avoiding everyone’s eyes, she walked quickly to an empty seat and sat down. 
“May we start now, madam?” the conductor asked, smiling. Then he blew his whistle twice, and the bus moved forward with a roar. It was a new bus, its outside painted a gleaming white with some green stripes along the sides. 
Inside, the overhead bars shone like silver. Directly in front of Valli, above the windshield, there was a beautiful clock. The seats were soft and luxurious. 
Valli devoured everything with her eyes. But when she started to look outside, she found her view cut off by a canvas blind that covered the lower part of her window. 
So she stood up on the seat and peered over the blind. The bus was now going along the bank of a canal. The road was very narrow. On one side there was the canal and, beyond it, palm trees, grassland, distant mountains, and the blue, blue sky. On the other side was a deep ditch and then acres and acres of green fields — green, green, green, as far as the eye could see. Oh, it was all so wonderful! 
Suddenly she was startled by a voice. “Listen, child,” said the voice, “you shouldn’t stand like that. Sit down.” Sitting down, she looked to see who had spoken. 
It was an elderly man who had honestly been concerned for her, but she was annoyed by his attention. “There’s nobody here who’s a child,” she said haughtily. 
“I’ve paid my thirty paise like everyone else.” The conductor chimed in. “Oh, sir, but this is a very grown-up madam. Do you think a mere girl could pay her own fare and travel to the city all alone?” Valli shot an angry glance at the conductor and said, “I am not a madam. Please remember that. 
And you’ve not yet given me my ticket.” “I’ll remember,” the conductor said, mimicking her tone. Everyone laughed, and gradually Valli too joined in the laughter. The conductor punched a ticket and handed it to her. 
“Just sit back and make yourself comfortable. Why should you stand when you’ve paid for a seat?” “Because I want to,” she answered, standing up again. “But if you stand on the seat, you may fall and hurt yourself when the bus makes a sharp turn or hits a bump. That’s why we want you to sit down, child.” 
“I’m not a child, I tell you,” she said irritably. “I’m eight years old.” “Of course, of course. How stupid of me! Eight years — my!” The bus stopped, some new passengers got on, and the conductor got busy for a time. Afraid of losing her seat, Valli finally sat down. An elderly woman came and sat beside her. 
“Are you all alone, dear?” she asked Valli as the bus started again. Valli found the woman absolutely repulsive — such big holes she had in her ear lobes, and such ugly earrings in them! And she could smell the betel nut the woman was chewing and see the betel juice that was threatening to spill over her lips at any moment. 
Ugh! — who could be sociable with such a person? “Yes, I’m travelling alone,” she answered curtly. “And I’ve got a ticket too.” “Yes, she’s on her way to town,” said the conductor. “With a thirty-paise ticket.” “Oh, why don’t you mind your own business,” said Valli. But she laughed all the same, and the conductor laughed too. 
But the old woman went on with her drivel. “Is it proper for such a young person to travel alone? Do you know exactly where you’re going in town? What’s the street? What’s the house number?” “You needn’t bother about me. 
I can take care of myself,” Valli said, turning her face towards the window and staring out. Her first journey — what careful, painstaking, elaborate plans she had had to make for it! She had thriftily saved whatever stray coins came her way, resisting every temptation to buy peppermints, toys, balloons, and the like, and finally she had saved a total of sixty paise. 
How difficult it had been, particularly that day at the village fair, but she had resolutely stifled a strong desire to ride the merrygo- round, even though she had the money. After she had enough money saved, her next problem was how to slip out of the house without her mother’s knowledge. But she managed this without too much difficulty. 
Every day after lunch her mother would nap from about one to four or so. Valli always used these hours for her ‘excursions’ as she stood looking from the doorway of her house or sometimes even ventured out into the village; today, these same hours could be used for her first excursion outside the village. 
The bus rolled on now cutting across a bare landscape, now rushing through a tiny hamlet or past an odd wayside shop. 
Sometimes the bus seemed on the point of gobbling up another vehicle that was coming towards them or a pedestrian crossing the road. 
But lo! somehow it passed on smoothly, leaving all obstacles safely behind. Trees came running towards them but then stopped as the bus reached them and simply stood there helpless for a moment by the side of the road before rushing away in the other direction. Suddenly Valli clapped her hands with glee. 
A young cow, tail high in the air, was running very fast, right in the middle of the road, right in front of the bus. The bus slowed to a crawl, and the driver sounded his horn loudly again and again. 
But the more he honked, the more frightened the animal became and the faster it galloped — always right in front of the bus. Somehow this was very funny to Valli. She laughed and laughed until there were tears in her eyes. 
“Hey, lady, haven’t you laughed enough?” called, the conductor. “Better save some for tomorrow.” At last the cow moved off the road. 
And soon the bus came to a railroad crossing. A speck of a train could be seen in the distance, growing bigger and bigger as it drew near. 
Then it rushed past the crossing gate with a tremendous roar and rattle, shaking the bus. Then the bus went on and passed the train station. 
From there it traversed a busy, well-laid-out shopping street and, turning, entered a wider thoroughfare. Such big, bright-looking shops! What glittering displays of clothes and other merchandise! Such big crowds! Struck dumb with wonder, Valli gaped at everything. 
Then the bus stopped and everyone got off except Valli. “Hey, lady,” said the conductor, “aren’t you ready to get off? This is as far as your thirty paise takes you.” “No,” Valli said, “I’m going back on this same bus.” She took another thirty paise from her pocket and handed the coins to the conductor.“Why, is something the matter?” 
“No, nothing’s the matter. I just felt like having a bus ride, that’s all.” “Don’t you want to have a look at the sights, now that you’re here?” 
“All by myself? Oh, I’d be much too afraid.” Greatly amused by the girl’s way of speaking, the conductor said, “But you weren’t afraid to come in the bus.” “Nothing to be afraid of about that,” she answered. “Well, then, why not go to that stall over there and have something to drink? Nothing to be afraid of about that either." 
“Oh, no, I couldn’t do that.” “Well, then, let me bring you a cold drink.” “No, I don’t have enough money. Just give me my ticket, that’s all.” “It’ll be my treat and not cost you anything.” 
“No, no,” she said firmly, “please, no.” The conductor shrugged, and they waited until it was time for the bus to begin the return journey. Again there weren’t many passengers. “Won’t your mother be looking for you?” the conductor asked when he gave the girl her ticket. “No, no one will be looking for me,” she said. 
The bus started, and again there were the same wonderful sights. Valli wasn’t bored in the slightest and greeted everything with the same excitement she’d felt the first time. But suddenly she saw a young cow lying dead by the roadside, just where it had been struck by some fast-moving vehicle. 
“Isn’t that the same cow that ran in front of the bus on our trip to town?” she asked the conductor. The conductor nodded, and she was overcome with sadness. What had been a lovable, beautiful creature just a little while ago had now suddenly lost its charm and its life and looked so horrible, so frightening as it lay there, legs spreadeagled, a fixed stare in its lifeless eyes, blood all over. 
The bus moved on. The memory of the dead cow haunted her, dampening her enthusiasm. She no longer wanted to look out the window. She sat thus, glued to her seat, until the bus reached her village at three forty. 
She stood up and stretched herself. Then she turned to the conductor and said, “Well, sir, 1 hope to see you again.” “Okay, madam,” he answered her, smiling. “Whenever you feel like a bus ride, come and join us. And don’t forget to bring your fare.” She laughed and jumped down from the bus. 
Then away she went, running straight for home. When she entered her house she found her mother awake and talking to one of Valli’s aunts, the one from South Street. 
This aunt was a real chatterbox, never closing her mouth once she started talking. “And where have you been?” said her aunt when Valli came in. She spoke very casually, not expecting a reply. So Valli just smiled, and her mother and aunt went on with their conversation.“Yes, you’re right,” her mother said. 
“So many things in our midst and in the world outside. How can we possibly know about everything? And even when we do know about something, we often can’t understand it completely, can we?” “Oh, yes!” breathed Valli. “What?” asked her mother. 
“What’s that you say?” “Oh,” said Valli, “I was just agreeing with what you said about things happening without our knowledge.” “Just a chit of a girl, she is,” said her aunt, “and yet look how she pokes her nose into our conversation, just as though she were a grown lady.” Valli smiled to herself. 
She didn’t want them to understand her smile. But, then, there wasn’t much chance of that, was there? GAUTAMA Buddha (563 B.C. – 483 B.C.) began life as a prince named Siddhartha Gautama, in northern India. At twelve, he was sent away for schooling in the Hindu sacred scriptures and four years later he returned home to marry a princess. 
They had a son and lived for ten years as befitted royalty. At about the age of twenty-five, the Prince, heretofore shielded from the sufferings of the world, while out hunting chanced upon a sick man, then an aged man, then a funeral procession, and finally a monk begging for alms. These sights so moved him that he at once became a beggar and went out into the world to seek enlightenment concerning the sorrows he had witnessed. 
He wandered for seven years and finally sat down under a fig tree, where he vowed to stay until enlightenment came. Enlightened after seven days, he renamed the tree the Bo Tree (Tree of Wisdom) and began to teach and to share his new understandings. 
At that point he became known as the Buddha (the Awakened or the Enlightened). The Buddha preached his first sermon at the city of Benares, most holy of the dipping places on the River Ganges; that sermon has been preserved and is given here. 
It reflects the Buddha’s wisdom about one inscrutable kind of suffering. Kisa Gotami had an only son, and he died. 
In her grief she carried the dead child to all her neighbours, asking them for medicine, and the people said, “She has lost her senses. The boy is dead.” At length, Kisa Gotami met a man who replied to her request, “I cannot give thee medicine for thy child, but I know a physician who can.” And the girl said, “Pray tell me, sir; who is it?” And the man replied, "Go to Salyamuni, the Buddha.” Kisa Gotami repaired to the Buddha and cried, “Lord and Master, give me the medicine that will cure my boy.” The Buddha answered, “I want a handful of mustardseed.” And when the girl in her joy promised to procure it, the Buddha added, “The mustard-seed must be taken from a house where no one has lost a child, husband, parent or friend.” Poor Kisa Gotami now went from house to house, and the people pitied her and said, “Here is mustardseed; take it!” But when she asked, “Did a son or daughter, a father or mother, die in your family?” they answered her, “Alas! the living are few, but the dead are many. Do not remind us of our deepest grief.” And there was no house but some beloved one had died in it. 
Kisa Gotami became weary and hopeless, and sat down at the wayside watching the lights of the city, as they flickered up and were extinguished again. At last the darkness of the night reigned everywhere. And she considered the fate of men, that their lives flicker up and are extinguished again. And she thought to herself, “How selfish am I in my grief! Death is common to all; yet in this valley of desolation there is a path that leads him to immortality who has surrendered all selfishness.” The Buddha said, ‘‘The life of mortals in this world is troubled and brief and combined with pain. 
For there is not any means by which those that have been born can avoid dying; after reaching old age there is death; of such a nature are living beings. 
As ripe fruits are early in danger of falling, so mortals when born are always in danger of death. 
As all earthen vessels made by the potter end in being broken, so is the life of mortals. Both young and adult, both those who are fools and those who are wise, all fall into the power of death; all are subject to death. 
“Of those who, overcome by death, depart from life, a father cannot save his son, nor kinsmen their relations. 
Mark! while relatives are looking on and lamenting deeply, one by one mortals are carried off, like an ox that is led to the slaughter. So the world is afflicted with death and decay, therefore the wise do not grieve, knowing the terms of the world. 
“Not from weeping nor from grieving will anyone obtain peace of mind; on the contrary, his pain will be the greater and his body will suffer. 
He will make himself sick and pale, yet the dead are not saved by his lamentation. He who seeks peace should draw out the arrow of lamentation, and complaint, and grief. He who has drawn out the arrow and has become composed will obtain peace of mind; he who has overcome all sorrow will become free from sorrow, and be blessed.” Soon after my wife died — her car slid off an icy road in 1985 — a school psychologist warned me that my children and I were not mourning in the right way. 
We felt angry; the proper first stage, he said, is denial. In late August this year, my 38-year-old son, Michael, died suddenly in his sleep, leaving behind a 2-year-old son and a wife expecting their next child. 
There is no set form for grief, and no ‘right’ way to express it. There seems to be an expectation that, after a great loss, we will progress systematically through the well-known stages of grief. 
It is wrong, we are told, to jump to anger — or to wallow too long in this stage before moving towards acceptance. 
But I was, and am, angry. To make parents bury their children is wrong; to have both my wife and son taken from me, for forever and a day, is cruel beyond words. A relative from Jerusalem, who is a psychiatrist, brought some solace by citing the maxim: ‘We are not to ask why, but what.’ 
The ‘what’ is that which survivors in grief are bound to do for one another. Following that advice, my family, close friends and I keep busy, calling each other and giving long answers to simple questions like, “How did your day go today?” 
We try to avoid thinking about either the immediate past or the bereft future. We take turns playing with Max, Michael’s two-year-old son. 
Friends spend nights with the young widow, and will be among those holding her hand when the baby is born. Focusing on what we do for one another is the only consolation we can find. Do you know anything about a Russian marriage ceremony? Read this article about a Russian wedding. Preparations for a Russian Wedding: A Russian wedding is very simple. The planning only includes arranging for rings, brides’ dress, cars, and a reception. 
Earlier, the bride’s family paid for the reception, but now-a-days brides’ and grooms’ families usually share expenses. A Russian wedding lasts for two days; some weddings last as long as a week, and the occasion becomes something to remember for years. 
The necessary part of the wedding ceremony is a wedding procession of several cars. The best friends of the groom/bride meet before the wedding a few times, make posters, write speeches and organise contests. When the groom arrives to fetch the bride for the registration, he has to fight to get her! 
Russians usually live in apartments in tall buildings, and the groom has to climb several stairs to reach his bride. But at each landing he must answer a question to be allowed to go up. The bride’s friends ask difficult questions (sometimes about the bride, sometimes just difficult riddles), and the groom must answer with the help of his friends. For example, he may be shown a few photos of baby girls and he must say which one his bride is. If he guesses wrong, he must pay cash to move ahead. 
After the marriage registration, the newly-married couple leaves the guests for a tour of the city sights. After two or three hours of the city tour the couple arrives at the reception. The couple sits at a specially arranged table with their family, friends and invited guests. The reception starts with toasts to the couple. 
A wedding toast is a custom where a close friend or relative of the groom or the bride says a few words to wish the couple, then everyone raises their glass of wine, and drink it up at the same moment. The groom is then asked to kiss the bride. 
After a few toasts, people start eating and drinking, and generally have fun. After some time, the bride gets ‘stolen’! She disappears, and when the groom starts looking for her, he is asked to pay a fee. Usually it is his friends who ‘steal’ the bride. 
Then there are the bride’s friends — they steal the bride’s shoe. The groom must pay money for the shoe too. The guests enjoy watching these tussles, and continue partying. 
‘The Proposal’ (originally titled ‘A Marriage Proposal’) is a one-act play, a farce, by the Russian short story writer and dramatist Anton Chekhov. 
It was written in 1888–89. The play is about the tendency of wealthy families to seek ties with other wealthy families, to increase their estates by encouraging marriages that make good economic sense. 
Ivan Lomov, a long time wealthy neighbour of Stepan Chubukov, also wealthy, comes to seek the hand of Chubukov’s twenty-five-year-old daughter, Natalya. 
All three are quarrelsome people, and they quarrel over petty issues. The proposal is in danger of being forgotten amidst all this quarrelling. 
But economic good sense ensures that the proposal is made, after all — although the quarrelling perhaps continues!