Contents
Foreword

iii

To the Teacher

v

A Happy Child

Three Little Pigs

1

Unit 2        16≠28

After a Bath

The Bubble, the Straw,
and the ShoeFire and Ice

15

Unit 3

One Little Kitten

Lalu and Peelu


16
32
Unit 4       

Once I Saw a Little Bird

Mittu and the Yellow Mango

Unit 5

Merry-Go-Round

Circle
Unit 6      

If I Were an Apple

Our Tree

63

Unit 7   77≠87
A Kite
Sundari               
viii

Unit 8

A Little Turtle

The Tiger and
the Mosquito

73
83

7. Glimpses of India
I. A Baker from Goa
LUCIO RODRIGUES

85

Unit 9            
Clouds

Anandi's Rainbow
99

Unit 10
Flying-Man

The Tailor and
his Friend

102

Fog
CARL SANDBURG

115

Picture Dictionary          
ix


My house is red. a little house; A happy child am I. 
I laugh and play the whole day long, I hardly ever cry. 
I have a tree, a green, green tree, To shade me from the sun; And under it I often sit, When all my play is done. 
Read and match the words with the pictures. 
Draw a line. 
There are many kinds of houses. 
Circle the ones you have seen. 
Draw your house here and talk about it. 
The following have lost their babies. 
Trace along the maze using different colours and find them. 
One has been done for you. 
Once there were three little pigs,Sonu, Monu and Gonu. 
Sonu lived in a house of straw. 
Monu lived in a house of sticks and One day a big bad wolf came to Sonu’s house. 
He said, “I will huff and puff and I will blow your house down.” So he huffed and he puffed and he blew the house down. 
Sonu ran to Monu’s house. 
The wolf came to Monu’s house. 
He said, “I will huff and puff and I will blow your house down.” 
So he huffed and he puffed and he blew Monu’s house down. 
Sonu and Monu ran to Gonu’s house. 
The wolf came to Gonu’s house. 
He said, “I will huff and puff and I will blow your house down.” 
So he huffed and he puffed but he could not blow the brick house down. 
It was very strong. 
The wolf went away and Sonu, Monu and Gonu lived happily together in the red brick house.
There are farm animals, water animals and jungle animals in this picture. 
Help the animals reach their homes. 
Draw lines. 
After my bath I try, try, try to wipe myself till I’m dry, dry, dry. 
Hands to wipe and fingers and toes and two wet legs and a shiny nose. 
Just think how much less time I’d take if I were a dog and could shake, shake, shake. 
Once upon a time there lived a Bubble, a Straw and a Shoe. 
One day they went into the forest. 
They came to a river. 
They did not know how to cross it. 
The Shoe said, “Bubble, let us float on you.” 
“No, Shoe! Let Straw stretch himself from one bank to the other. Then we can cross the river.” 
So, the Straw stretched himself from one bank to the other. 
When the Shoe jumped on the Straw, it broke. 
The Shoe fell into the water with a loud splash. 
The Bubble shook and shook with laughter and burst with a big bang. 
One little kitten. 
Two big cats. 
Three baby butterflies. 
Four big rats. 
Five fat fishes. 
Six sad seals. 
Seven silly seagulls. 
Eight happy eels; 
Nine nervous lizards. 
Ten brave bees. 
Eleven smelly elephants. 
Twelve fat fleas. 
Thirteen alligators. 
Fourteen whales. 
Fifteen donkeys. 
With fifteen tails. 
There was a hen. 
She had two chicks, Lalu and Peelu. 
Lalu was red. 
He loved red things. Peelu was yellow. He loved yellow things. One day Lalu saw something on a plant. It was red. He ate it up. Oh, no! It was a red chilli. It was very hot. Lalu’s mouth started burning. He screamed. Mother Hen came running. Peelu came too. Peelu said, “I’ll get something for you!” Peelu brought a yellow laddu. Lalu gobbled up the laddu. His mouth stopped burning. Mother Hen and Lalu kissed Peelu. Red plus yellow is orange. Red plus blue is purple. Blue plus yellow is green. 
Add white to make them light. Come to me, chicks. I want you here. What do you want, mother? Look at me. Do what I do. Down and up. Up and down. Mother! Mother! I can do what you do. Look at me. Down and up. Up and down. Look at me, chicks. Do what I do. Up-down - 
Oh! Oh! Mother! Mother! The water! The water! Percy is down, down, in the water. Oh! Percy, Percy! Once I saw a little bird. Come hop, hop, hop, I cried, “Little bird, Will you stop, stop, stop?” I was going to the window. To say, “How do you do?” But he shook his little tail. And away he flew. Mittu was a parrot. A green parrot with a red beak. 
One day Mittu was flying. He loved to fly. He looked down. He saw a big yellow mango on a tree. Mittu liked mangoes. “I want to eat that yellow mango,” he said. He flew down to the tree. “Caw, caw, go away. This is my tree,” said a voice. Mittu looked up. He saw a big black crow. “Caw, caw, go, go, the crow shouted. He had a very loud voice. Mittu was afraid of the crow. He flew away. Mittu saw a red balloon. It was under a tree. He had an idea. He picked up the red balloon. He was careful not to burst it. 
He flew to the mango tree. 
The crow was sitting on the tree. 
Mittu went behind the tree. 
He pecked the balloon with his red beak. 
“Pop!” The balloon burst. It made a loud noise. “Caw!” said the crow. 
And he fell off the tree. “Caw, caw, a big gun is after me,” said the crow. 
He flew away. He never came back to the tree. Mittu came to the tree. 
He ate the big yellow mango. “Yummy yummy, what a nice mango! he said. 
He was very happy. Clever Mittu! I climbed up on the merry-go-round, And it went round and round. 
I climbed up on a big brown horse, And it went up and down. Around and round, And up and down, Around and round, And up and down. 
I sat high up. On a big brown horse, And rode around, On the merry-go-round, On the merry-go-round. 
Around. 
And round. 
And round. 
Have you seen a merry-go-round? Where have you seen it? 
Listen, read and draw. One day Mohini was sitting with her grandmother. 
Grandmother drew a circle. “Can you draw a circle, Mohini?” “Yes I can.” Soon Mohini drew a circle. 
“Now, I’ll draw a ball.” Grandmother drew three lines on the circle. 
Mohini drew three lines on her circle. 
It really looked like a ball. “Now let’s draw a balloon.” Grandmother added a zig-zag line to the circle. 
“Oh! It really looks like a balloon.” Mohini clapped with joy. 
Mohini drew many circles— big and small circles, red, blue, green and yellow circles. She also added zig-zag lines to these. And now there were many balloons. 
“Can you draw something else with a circle?” asked Grandmother. 
“Yes,” said Mohini. She drew a wheel, a moon, a sun, a rabbit and her own face. 
If I were an apple. And grew on a tree, I think I’d drop down. 
On a nice boy like me. 
I wouldn’t stay there. 
Giving nobody joy, I’d fall down at once. 
And say, “Eat me, my boy!” A little bird sees. 
Ripe fruit on our tree. And eats a tasty berry. 
The bird flies tall. 
And a berry seed falls. 
The rains have come. 
Hurry! let’s run. Clouds, rain and sun. 
Our plant is born, a little one. 
Now a tree, With branches long, Crows and bird-song, Crawling ants and spiders’ webs, Caterpillars with tiny legs, Rich green leaves, life aplenty. 
The tree has fruit, Some big, some small, Let us pluck them. 
But do not fall! 
Strong branches, With pretty swings, Our beautiful tree has so many things. 
Crows perch, squirrels run, And see the monkeys having fun! Yes, I can climb. Yes, I can pluck. 
Yes, I can catch. Yes, I can jump. 
One day Murali ate a mango. He threw the seed behind his house. 
Many months later, he saw a plant. 
He watered the plant every day. The plant grew into a big mango tree. 
Every summer, many mangoes grow on it. Now, Murali’s children eat the mangoes. 
I often sit and wish that I. 
Could be a kite up in the sky, And ride upon the breeze and go. Whichever way I chanced to blow. Sundari was a big red, white and blue kite. 
When Bobby made her she smiled at him. “You are beautiful and I will call you Sundari,” he said. One day, Bobby took Sundari to the fair. 
The band was playing and everyone was smiling. 
Bobby looked for an open space where he could run and fly his kite. 
Sundari looked too. 
Out in the grass ran Bobby, holding up his kite as high as he could. Puff! The wind came along. 
Sundari started to fly up! But she could not go very high. 
A little dog was holding on to her long tail. It was in his mouth. 
A merry-go-round was playing a happy little tune. 
It was carrying lots of boys and girls round and round on its wooden animals. 
Bobby shooed the dog away. “We’ll try again,” Bobby said. 
This time Sundari leaped up in the air. She tugged hard. 
Oh, how she wanted Bobby to let go of her string! She gave a big tug. 
Bobby had to let her go. “Wheee!” cried Sundari. “Now I can fly as high as I please!” 
And away she went. She flew up, up, up in the air. 
I am a little turtle I crawl so slow, I carry my house Wherever I go. 
When I get tired. I put in my head, My legs and my tail, And I go to bed. 
A tiger was dozing under a tree. A mosquito came buzzing by. 
The tiger said, “Hey! Mosquito! Go away!” The mosquito said, “Why should I go away? I am not afraid of you!” The tiger was angry. 
He hit out with his paw. The mosquito flew off. 
The paw struck his own cheek. The blow scraped his cheek. 
It began to bleed. 
The mosquito buzzed away. 
The tiger struck with his other paw. 
The mosquito flew off. 
This time, too, he hit himself. 
The tiger was helpless. 
The mosquito continued to buzz. 
The tiger got up and quietly walked away. 
The mosquito called out after him, “Don’t be so proud, my friend. 
Everyone is great in his own way!” It is hot. 
The sky is blue. A little cloud comes looking for you. 
More clouds come. They bring rain. Sing and dance. 
It’s cool again! It was raining outside. 
Anandi was fast asleep dreaming of rainbows. 
She woke up to look out of her window. 
There was a huge, bright rainbow across a clear blue sky. 
Anandi ran out to the garden with Milli, her favourite cat. 
Anandi loved to draw and paint. 
Today, she wanted to paint the flowers of her garden with the colours of the rainbow. 
She coloured one flower with the violet, and another with the indigo of the rainbow. 
One with the blue and leaves with the green. 
One with the orange. 
One with the red. 
But she left the yellow so that the Sun may look bright and gay. 
And lo! There were beautiful flowers all over the garden. 
The Sun was up there shining in its yellow glory. 
After giving colours to the flowers and the Sun, the rainbow was gone. 
Kalu the tailor had a shop near the river. 
He made colourful pants and shirts for children. Appu the elephant was his friend. 
Appu came to his shop everyday. 
Kalu gave him many nice things to eat. 
One day Kalu wanted to play a trick. 
He did not give Appu anything to eat. 
He took out his needle instead and pricked Appu’s trunk. 
Appu ran away in pain. Two days later Appu came down to the river and filled his trunk with water. 
He reached Kalu’s shop and threw water everywhere. 
All the new clothes became wet. 
Appu shook his trunk and said “An elephant never forgets.” Kalu said, “I am sorry, Appu.
Let’s be friends again.” Kalu and Appu became good friends.